Applies to: 
Non Bargained, North American Distributors, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & 
CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB 
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan 
and Summary Plan Description 
 
Plan Document and Summary Plan Description effective January 1, 2021
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB, LDD & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 2 -
Table of Contents:
Dictionary Terms........................................................................................................... 3
Preface ......................................................................................................................... 19
Introduction ................................................................................................................. 19
Eligibility ...................................................................................................................... 20
Enrollment ................................................................................................................... 23
Cost.............................................................................................................................. 27
Health Savings Account (HSA) .................................................................................. 30
Plan Benefit ................................................................................................................. 36
Covered Services ........................................................................................................ 38
Restrictions and Exclusions ...................................................................................... 54
Prescription Drug Plan ............................................................................................... 58
Vision ........................................................................................................................... 64
Filing a Claim............................................................................................................... 65
Benefits Complaint and Appeals Procedure............................................................. 68
Coordination of Benefits ............................................................................................ 68
Subrogation and Right of Reimbursement ............................................................... 76
Termination and Continuation ................................................................................... 80
COBRA......................................................................................................................... 80
USERRA Rights and Coverage .................................................................................. 86
Administrative Information......................................................................................... 88
ERISA Rights............................................................................................................... 97
General Information About the Plan.......................................................................... 99
Claims Administrators.............................................................................................. 100
Contacts..................................................................................................................... 100
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB, LDD & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 3 -
Dictionary Terms
The following terms are used throughout the Plan as having special meaning. In this 
section, you will find the definitions for these terms to help clarify their meaning and to 
provide information to better help you understand the provisions of the Plan. These 
words are capitalized throughout this document to indicate that these special meanings 
are in place.
Actively at Work
Present and capable of carrying out the normal assigned job duties at the Company. 
If you are absent from work due to an approved health-related Short-Term Disability
Leave, FMLA leave or regularly scheduled vacation, you will be considered Actively 
at Work. If you are not Actively at Work due to a health status-related factor, as 
defined in HIPAA, you will still be treated as if you were Actively at Work.
Base Salary
The earnings term the Company uses in determining a Covered Employee's eligibility 
for an increased Company contribution to their Health Savings Account (HSA). Base 
Salary for HSA seed calculation purposes is a Covered Employee’s regular or base 
salary plus commissions. It does not include other types of pay, including but not 
limited to team pay, shift differential, overtime, bonuses, incentive pay, , relocation 
expense payments, car expense payments or tuition reimbursements. 
Brand-Name Drug
A drug that is protected by a patent issued to the original Company that invented or 
marketed the drug. 
Business Associate
A person who provides the Plan with services that involve the use or disclosure of 
Protected Health Information. An Employee of the Company or other workforce 
member under the control of the Company is not considered a Business Associate of 
the Plan.
Certificate of Creditable Coverage
Documentation confirming your last 18 months of health coverage that can help you 
get coverage without a Pre-Existing Condition exclusion.
Claims Administrator
The person or firm employed by the Company who is given authority by the 
Company to provide administrative services, including determining the medical, 
Prescription Drug, and vision benefits payable under the Plan. The Claims 
Administrators of the Plan are listed in the GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE PLAN 
section.
COBRA
The Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, which is the federal 
law that lets certain people covered by a group health plan temporarily extend 
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB, LDD & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 4 -
coverage when their coverage would otherwise end by paying the applicable 
premium.
Coinsurance
A percentage of expenses that you are responsible for paying after you meet your 
Deductible. 
Common-Law Spouse
A person you marry without a civil or ecclesiastical ceremony, in accordance with 
applicable state law. This is based on your living together continuously as husband 
and wife for an extended period of time. Time limits vary by state.
Company
The association or organization for which you work and that provides your benefits
under the Plan. This includes Cummins Inc. and its affiliates and subsidiaries. A 
complete list of the employers participating in the Plan may be obtained upon written 
request to the Plan Administrator, as well as information regarding whether your 
employer is a sponsor of the Plan.
Copay
The flat dollar amount you pay for a certain types of Covered Services. 
Covered Employee
An Employee who has met the eligibility requirements of, and is covered under, the 
Plan.
Covered Expenses
Expenses incurred by a Member for Covered Services.
Covered Services
Medically Necessary services, supplies or treatment as described in the Plan that are 
performed, prescribed, directed, or authorized by a Provider. To be considered 
Covered Services, services must be:
• within the scope of the license of the Provider performing the service;
• rendered while benefits under the Plan are payable;
• a Reasonable Charge;
• not specifically excluded by the Plan; and
• not in excess of the limits specified in the Plan.
A Covered Service is incurred on the date the service, supply, or treatment was 
provided and not when you are formally billed, charged for, or pay for the service, 
supply, or treatment.
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB, LDD & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 5 -
Custodial Care
Care primarily for the purpose of assisting in the activities of daily living or in meeting 
personal rather than medical needs. Care that cannot be expected to substantially 
improve a medical condition and has minimal therapeutic value. Custodial Care is 
not specific treatment for an illness or injury and is not covered under the Plan.
Such care includes, but is not limited to:
• assistance with walking, bathing, or dressing;
• transfer or positioning in bed;
• normally self-administered medicine;
• meal preparation;
• feeding by utensil, tube, or gastrostomy;
• oral hygiene;
• ordinary skin and nail care;
• catheter care;
• suctioning;
• using the toilet;
• enemas;
• preparation of special diets; and
• supervision over medical equipment or exercises or over self-administration of 
oral medications not requiring constant attention of trained medical personnel.
Deductible
The amount of Covered Expenses you are responsible for paying each Plan Year 
before the Plan starts paying certain benefits.
Dependent
Your legal Spouse, Common-Law Spouse, Domestic Partner, or child who is eligible 
for coverage under the Plan as described in the ELIGIBILITY section.
Diagnostic Service
A test or procedure performed when you have specific symptoms to detect or to 
monitor a certain disease or condition. 
Disability
A condition that causes you to be unable to perform one or more regular job duties. 
Domestic Partner
Someone of the opposite sex or same sex under the following criteria:
• you and your Domestic Partner have had a single, dedicated relationship with
each other and have shared the same living quarters and permanent residence 
for at least six months;
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB, LDD & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 6 -
• your Domestic Partner is not married to another person or part of another 
Domestic Partner relationship and is 18 years of age or older;
• you and your Domestic Partner are mutually responsible for each other's 
common welfare;
• you and your Domestic Partner intend for your relationship to be permanent; and
• you and your Domestic Partner are not related to one another so closely as to 
preclude marriage under applicable state law.
To apply for coverage for your Domestic Partner, complete an Affirmation of 
Domestic Partnership and send it to the CBS Benefits Contact Center (see the 
CONTACTS section for more information).
Effective Date
The date your coverage begins under the Plan as set forth in the ENROLLMENT
section.
Emergency and Emergency Care
A medical condition (and the medical care for it) that manifests itself by acute 
symptoms of such severity, including severe pain, that the absence of immediate 
medical attention could reasonably be expected by a prudent lay person who 
possesses an average knowledge of health and medicine to:
• place an individual's health in serious jeopardy;
• result in serious impairment to the individual's bodily functions; or
• result in serious dysfunction of a bodily organ or part of the individual.
Employee
A person the Company hires to do a job or activities that are controlled by the 
Company.
ERISA
The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
Exempt
Employees who receive fixed compensation paid regularly for work or services, 
regardless of the number of hours worked each week, who are "exempt" from 
overtime.
Experimental/Investigational
A drug, device, supply, procedure or treatment that the Claims Administrator or 
Claims Administrator's designee determines (at his/her sole discretion) at the time of 
treatment or use if:
• there is insufficient outcome data available from controlled clinical trials published 
in the peer review literature to substantiate its safety and effectiveness for the 
disease or injury involved; 
• if required by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), approval has not 
been granted for marketing;
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB, LDD & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 7 -
• a recognized national medical or dental society or regulatory agency has 
determined, in writing, that it is experimental, investigational, or for research 
purposes; or
• the written protocol or protocols used by the treating facility or the protocol or 
protocols of any other facility studying substantially the same drug, device, 
procedure or treatment or the written informed consent used by the treating 
facility or by another facility studying the same drug, device, procedure, or 
treatment states that it is experimental, investigational, or for research purposes.
Documents the Claims Administrator relies upon to determine whether Covered 
Services are Experimental/Investigational based on the criteria in the above sections 
may, at the Claims Administrator's discretion, include one or more items from the 
following list, which is not all inclusive:
• the Member's medical records;
• the written protocol(s) or other document(s) pursuant to which the Covered 
Service has been or will be provided;
• the published, authoritative, peer-reviewed medical or scientific literature 
regarding the Covered Service as it applies to the Member's condition;
• any consent document(s) the Member or Member's representative has executed 
or will be asked to execute to receive the Covered Service;
• the relevant documents of the Institutional Review Board or similar body that 
approves or reviews research at the institution where the Covered Service has 
been or will be provided;
• any records, regulations, applications or other documents or actions issued by, 
filed with, or received by the FDA, the Office of Technology Assessment, or other 
federal or state agencies with similar functions, that the Claims Administrator or 
the Claims Administrator's designee, has in its possession at the time of the 
review; and
• opinions and evaluations by national medical associations or committees, 
consensus panels, or other technology evaluation bodies, such as the Claims 
Administrator's Technology Evaluation Center.
Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA)
The Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, as amended, which is a Federal law that 
provides for various types of family and medical leave, such as:
• leave for an Employee's serious health condition or the serious health condition 
of the Employee's Spouse, child, or parent,
• leave for the birth, adoption or foster care placement of a child, or
• leave because of any qualifying exigency arising out of the fact that the Spouse, 
son, daughter, or parent of the Employee is on duty (or has been notified of an 
impending call or order to active duty) in the Armed Forces in support of a 
contingency operation.
Family Coverage
Enrollment in Plan coverage for yourself and any other eligible Dependent(s) (i.e., 
Employee plus Spouse, Employee plus child, or Employee plus Family Coverage). 
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB, LDD & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 8 -
Family Deductible
The amount of Covered Expenses you and your eligible Dependents are responsible 
for paying each Plan Year before the Plan starts paying certain benefits. 
Formulary
A listing of Prescription Drugs that includes brand and generic equivalents which may 
be periodically amended, that Providers should use in prescribing Prescription Drugs. 
Drugs placed on the Formulary are chosen by a Pharmacy & Therapeutics (P&T) 
Committee. When a drug is considered for the Formulary, inclusion of the drug is 
typically examined relative to similar drugs on the Formulary. Entire therapeutic 
classes are periodically reviewed. This review may result in tier status changes or 
exclusions of drugs in a particular therapeutic class in an effort to continually promote 
the most clinically useful and cost effective agents. Drugs evaluated by the P&T 
Committee may not be added to the Formulary or excluded due to belief that the 
drug offers no known clinical or cost advantage over comparable Formulary drugs, or 
there is currently insufficient scientific information to determine the drug's appropriate 
clinical role. Excluded drugs from the Formulary will require full cost share of the 
drug without reimbursement under the plan for the participant. A Formulary 
exception review for medical necessity may be initiated by the Provider in order to 
determine if an excluded drug would be covered by the plan for a particular 
participant.
Generic Drug
A drug that generally contains the same ingredients and has the same effect as a 
Brand-Name Drug, but is manufactured by a company other than the one that 
manufactures the Brand-Name Drug. 
Health Savings Account (HSA) 
An HSA is an account that you own. It is designed to help you save toward your 
current and future health care expenses on a tax favored basis and any 
interest/investment gain on your balance is earned tax free. You can use the HSA to 
pay for current and future medical expenses. You decide:
• whether and how much you should contribute;
• how much to spend for health care expenses from the account;
• which health care expenses to pay from the account;
• whether to pay for health care expenses from the account or save the funds in 
the account for future use;
• whether to invest any of the money in the account; and
• which type of investments offered through the Company’s designated HSA 
custodian to grow the account.
The HSA provides you triple tax savings:
• pre-tax payroll contributions to your account;
• tax-free earnings through investment; and
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB, LDD & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 9 -
• tax-free withdrawals for qualified medical expenses.
Unspent balances in the account at the end of the Plan Year continue to be yours to 
manage. The funds can be used in the next year, any later year, or saved for 
retirement.
As an account holder, you are annually sent reports from the HSA custodian (Form 
1099-SA and Form 5498-SA). 
• Form 1099 reports distributions from the account for the calendar year and is
mailed late January.
• Form 5498 reports total contributions for the tax year and is mailed in May.
You report distributions from the HSA on your annual tax return. You must file Form 
8889 as part of your annual tax return.
The HSA funds are 100% owned by you regardless of service with the Company. 
Accounts are completely portable, meaning you can keep your HSA even if you
change jobs, change your medical coverage, or become unemployed.
You can find more information on HSAs by visiting the U.S. Treasury Department’s 
Web site at www.treas.gov. Click on "Health Savings Accounts” for answers to 
frequently asked questions, related IRS forms and publications, and examples of tax 
savings from HSA contributions.
Because you own the HSA account, you are responsible for ensuring you are eligible 
to contribute and for any tax consequences. 
High Deductible Health Plan (HDHP) 
Health insurance plan that satisfies the guidelines set forth in Internal Revenue Code 
Section 223. This Plan is an HSA-qualified HDHP. To be an HSA-qualified HDHP, 
typically, you must pay for all health care expenses until you reach the Plan 
Deductible, including Prescription Drugs. Exceptions to this are Covered Services for 
preventive care where the plan provides first dollar coverage before the Deductible is 
satisfied for the preventive care expenses. 
As an HSA-qualified HDHP, the Plan must meet minimum Deductible amounts and 
not exceed annual Out-of-Pocket amounts (including Deductibles, Copays, and 
Coinsurance). These amounts are indexed annually for inflation. The Plan's 
Deductibles are covered in the COST section later in the Plan.
HIPAA
The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended.
Home Health Care
Services provided as needed in a patient's home by a Home Health Care Agency or 
by others under arrangements made by a Home Health Care Agency.
Hospice Care
Home care or Inpatient care for a patient with a terminal illness.
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB, LDD & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 10 -
Hospital
A Provider constituted, licensed, and operated as set forth in the laws that apply to 
Hospitals, which:
• provides room and board and nursing care for its patients;
• has a staff with one or more Physicians available at all times;
• provides 24 hour nursing service;
• maintains on its premises all the facilities needed for the diagnosis, medical care, 
and treatment of an illness or injury; and
• is fully accredited by the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Health Care 
Organizations.
The term Hospital does not include a Provider, or that part of a Provider, used mainly 
for:
• nursing care;
• rest care;
• convalescent care;
• care of the aged;
• custodial care;
• educational care;
• treatment of alcohol abuse; or
• treatment of drug abuse.
Identification Card
A card the Plan sends you that contains information your Provider needs to process 
your medical expenses.
Individual Coverage 
Enrollment in Plan coverage for you only.
Individual Deductible
The amount of Covered Expenses each Member is responsible for meeting each 
year before the Plan starts paying certain benefits. 
In-Network Provider
A Provider who has entered into a contractual agreement or is otherwise engaged by 
the Claims Administrator, or with another organization that has an agreement with 
the Claims Administrator, regarding payment for Covered Services and certain 
administration functions for the network associated with the Plan.
Inpatient
When you are admitted to the Hospital and stay more than 24 hours. 
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB, LDD & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 11 -
Mail Order Service
A Prescription Drug program that offers you a convenient means of obtaining 
maintenance medications by mail if you take Prescription Drugs on a regular basis. 
Covered Prescription Drugs are ordered directly from the licensed Pharmacy Mail 
Order Service that has entered into a reimbursement agreement with the Company, 
and sent directly to your home.
Medically Necessary or Medical Necessity
Services or supplies received for the treatment of an illness or injury or other health 
condition or that is medically appropriate for the patient's age or sex as a preventive 
measure for an asymptomatic patient that is determined by the Claims Administrator 
to be:
• appropriate and consistent with the diagnosis or symptoms, and consistent with 
accepted medical standards;
• not chiefly Custodial in nature;
• not Experimental/Investigative;
• not excessive in scope, duration, or intensity to provide safe, adequate, and 
appropriate treatment and as to institutional care, cannot be provided in any 
other setting, such as a Physician's office or the Outpatient department of a 
Hospital, without adversely affecting the patient's condition; or
• not provided only as a convenience to the patient, the patient's Physician, or 
another Provider or person.
The fact that any particular Provider may prescribe, order, recommend, or approve a 
service, supply, or level of care does not, of itself, make such treatment Medically 
Necessary.
Any service or supply provided at a Provider Facility will not be considered Medically 
Necessary if the Member's symptoms or condition indicate that it would be safe to 
provide the service or supply in a less comprehensive setting.
The Claims Administrator is responsible for making the determintion as to whether 
services or supplies are Medically Necessary.
Medicare
The U.S. federal government's plan administered by the Social Security 
Administration, that pays certain Hospital and medical expenses for those who 
qualify, primarily those over 65 or totally and permanently disabled. It is the program 
established by Title I of Public Law 89-97 (79 Statutes 291), as amended, and 
entitled Health Insurance for the Aged Act, which includes Part A - Hospital Benefits 
for the Aged, Part B - Supplemental Medical Insurance Benefits for the Aged, Part C 
- Medicare Advantage, and Part D – Voluntary Prescription Drug Benefit Program.
Member
You and your Dependent(s) who have satisfied the eligibility conditions, applied for 
coverage under the Plan, and been approved by the Company. 
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB, LDD & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 12 -
Mental Health Conditions (including Substance Abuse)
A condition identified as a mental disorder in the most current version of the 
International Classification of Diseases, in the Chapter entitled "mental disorders" as
follows:
• mental health is a condition that manifests symptoms that are primarily mental or 
nervous, regardless of any underlying physical cause; and
• substance abuse is a condition brought about when an individual uses alcohol or 
other drugs in such a manner that his or her health is impaired and/or ability to 
control actions is lost.
In determining whether or not a particular condition is a Mental Health Condition, the 
Plan may refer to the most current edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of 
Mental Conditions of the American Psychiatric Association, or the International 
Classification of Diseases (ICD) Manual.
New FDA Approved Drug Product or Technology 
The first release of the brand name product or technology upon the initial FDA New 
Drug Approval. Other applicable FDA approval for its biochemical composition and 
initial availability in the marketplace for the indicated treatment and use.
New FDA Approved Drug Product or Technology does not include:
• New formulations: a new dosage form or new formulation of an active ingredient 
already on the market;
• Already marketed Drug product but new manufacturer: a product that duplicates 
another firm’s already marketed Drug product (same active ingredient, 
formulation, or combination);
• Already marketed Drug product, but new use: a new use for a Drug product 
already marketed by the same or a different firm; or
• Newly introduced generic medication: generic medications contain the same 
active ingredient as their counterpart brand-named medications.
Non-Exempt
Employees entitled to overtime pay under the Fair Labor Standards Act of at least 
one and one-half times regular hourly earnings for all hours worked over 40 hours in 
a week. 
Non-Participating Transplant Facility
A Hospital, which has not contracted with the Claims Administrator to provide 
covered transplant procedures. Benefits are paid at a reduced rate when a NonParticipating Transplant Facility is used.
Non-Preventive Prescription Drugs 
Drugs or medicines available with a doctor’s prescription that are not included on the 
Preventive Drug list. You will pay the full cost for these medications until the medical 
plan deductible has been met. Once the deductible has been met, you will play 
applicable coinsurance or copays until the out of pocket has been reached. The 
preventive drug list is subject to change at any time.
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB, LDD & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 13 -
Out-of-Network Provider
A Provider who is not an In-Network Provider. These providers are not members of 
the insurance company’s preferred network of providers. Costs are typically higher 
to see an Out-of-Network Provider.
Out-of-Pocket Maximum
The maximum amount you or your eligible Dependents have to pay toward the cost 
of covered medical care in the course of one year. There are some exceptions to the 
Out-of-Pocket Maximum. See the COST-SHARING PROVISIONS section for more 
information.
Outpatient
When you receive health care without being admitted as an overnight patient for less 
than 24 hours.
Participating Transplant Facility
A Hospital that has contracted with the Claims Administrator to provide covered 
transplant procedures. Benefits are paid at a higher rate when a Participating 
Transplant Facility is used.
Plan
The group benefits Plan and Summary Plan Description (SPD) provided by the 
Company as set forth in this document and as amended from time to time known as 
the "Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan and Summary Plan 
Description." This document serves as both the official plan document and Summary 
Plan Description.
Plan Administrator
The Plan Administrator administers the Plan and is a named fiduciary of the Plan 
within the meaning of ERISA. The Plan Administrator has the discretionary authority 
to interpret all Plan provisions and to determine all issues arising under the Plan, 
including issues of eligibility, coverage, and benefits. The Company is the Plan 
Administrator. As used in this Plan, the term Plan Administrator shall also refer to 
any person or entity designated by the Plan Administrator to perform a function under 
the Plan.
Plan Year
The 12-month period, or policy or fiscal year on which the Plan's records are kept. 
The Plan Year is January 1 through December 31.
Precertification
Prior authorization a Member may need to receive full benefits. 
Premium
The amount of money you pay each month for benefit coverage. Your premium may 
be taken from your paycheck on a "pre-tax" basis before applicable federal, state, 
local and other taxes are withheld.
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB, LDD & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 14 -
Prescription Drugs
A medical drug approved by the FDA as safe and effective and that is only available 
when prescribed by a licensed Physician and legally dispensed by a licensed 
pharmacist and bears the following warning: "Caution: Federal Law prohibits 
dispensing without a prescription."
Prescription Drug Identification Card
A card the Plan sends you that contains information your pharmacy needs to process 
your prescription drug expenses. This information is included on your Anthem 
Medical Plan ID card.
Preventive Prescription Drugs
Drugs or medications when taken by a person who has developed risk factors for a 
disease that has not yet manifested itself or not yet become clinically apparent (i.e., 
asymptomatic), or to prevent the reoccurrence of a disease from which a person has 
recovered. Drugs or medications used as part of procedures providing preventive 
care services specified in IRS Notice 2004-23, including obesity weight-loss and 
tobacco cessation programs, are also Preventive Prescription Drugs. Certain 
Prescription Drugs are considered preventive under the Plan. They are covered 
without meeting the Deductible, but are subject to Coinsurance or Copays. These 
drugs do not count toward your Deductible, but they do count toward your annual 
Out-Of-Pocket Maximum. Once the annual Out-Of-Pocket Maximum is reached, 
these Preventive Prescription Drugs are then covered at 100% for the remainder of 
the Plan Year. 
Protected Health Information
Health Information (including demographic information) that:
• identifies an individual (or provides a reasonable basis to believe the information 
can be used to identify an individual);
• is created or received by a health care Provider, a health plan, or certain other 
entities of the health care industry; 
• relates to the past, present, or future physical or mental health or condition of an 
individual; information regarding health care provided to an individual; or the 
past, present, or future payment for an individual's health care; and 
• is transmitted in any form or medium.
Protected Health Information does not include employment records held by the 
Company or records related to other employee benefits provided by the Company.
Electronic Protected Health Information is Protected Health Information that is 
transmitted or maintained by or in electronic media (such as e-mails). For purposes 
of this Plan, the term "Protected Health Information" will refer to both Protected 
Health Information and electronic Protected Health Information, unless otherwise 
noted.
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB, LDD & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 15 -
Provider
A duly licensed person or facility that provides health services within the scope of an 
applicable license and is a person or facility that the Claims Administrator approves. 
This includes any Provider rendering services, which are required by applicable State 
law to be covered when rendered by such Provider. Providers include, but are not 
limited to, the following persons and facilities:
• Alcoholism Treatment Facility (a facility that mainly provides detoxification and/or 
rehabilitation treatment for alcoholism);
• Ambulatory Surgical Facility;
• Certified Nurse Midwife;
• Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetist (C.R.N.A.);
• Diabetic Education;
• Dialysis Facility;
• Drug Abuse Treatment Facility;
• Home Health Care Agency;
• Home Infusion Facility;
• Hospice;
• Hospital;
• Laboratory (Clinical);
• Licensed Practical Nurse (L.P.N.);
• Occupational Therapist;
• Ophthalmologist;
• Optician;
• Optometrist;
• Outpatient Psychiatric Facility;
• Pharmacy;
• Physical Therapist;
• Physician that holds a professional license under applicable State law as a 
Doctor of Medicine (M.D.), Doctor of Osteopathy (D.O.), Podiatrist or Surgical 
Chiropodist (D.P.M. or D.S.C.), Dental Surgeon (D.D.S.), Chiropractor (D.C.), or
Doctor of Optometry (O.D.);
• Psychiatric Hospital;
• Psychologist;
• Rehabilitation Hospital;
• Respiratory Therapist;
• Registered Nurse;
• Registered Nurse Practitioner;
• Registered Physician's Assistant;
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB, LDD & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 16 -
• Skilled Nursing Facility;
• Social Worker;
• Speech Therapist;
• Supplier of Durable Medical Equipment, Prosthetic Appliances and/or Medical 
Supplies; and
• Urgent Care Center.
Qualified Medical Child Support Order (QMCSO)
A judgment, decree, or order that is issued by a court of competent jurisdiction or 
through an administrative process established under State law that has the force and 
effect of law under applicable state law, that is determined by the Plan Administrator 
or its designee to meet the requirements of Section 609 of ERISA, and that meets all 
of the following criteria:
• provides for child support with respect to a child of a Member under the Plan or 
provides for health benefit coverage to such a child, is made pursuant to a State 
domestic relations law (including a community property law), and relates to 
benefits under the Plan; or
• is made pursuant to a law relating to medical child support described in section 
1908 of the Social Security Act with respect to the Plan.
Qualifying Event
An event recognized by Section 125 of the Internal Revenue Code that permits you 
to make a change in election. Examples of events include leaving the Company; a 
reduction in hours; marriage; birth of your child; your death, divorce or legal 
separation; your eligibility for Medicare; a Dependent child's loss of Dependent 
status; or loss of coverage due to your filing for bankruptcy.
Reasonable Charge
The maximum amount that the Claims Administrator determines is reasonable for 
Covered Services you or your eligible Dependents receive, up to but not to exceed 
charges actually billed. The Claims Administrator's determination is based on the 
amount accepted by an In-Network Provider as payment in full under this Plan. The 
Claims Administrator's determination considers the contracted rate for services in a 
geographic area. The Reasonable Charge is reduced by any penalties for which a 
Provider is responsible as a result of its agreement with the Claims Administrator.
Recovery
A Recovery is money you receive from another party, their insurer or from any 
"Uninsured Motorist," "Underinsured Motorist," "Medical-Payments," "No-Fault," or 
"Personal Injury Protection," or other insurance coverage provision as a result of 
injury or illness caused by another. Regardless of how you or your representative or 
any agreements characterize the money you receive, it shall be subject to the 
SUBROGATION AND RIGHT OF REIMBURSEMENT provisions of this Plan document.
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB, LDD & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 17 -
Rescission
Rescission is cancellation or discontinuance of coverage that has a retroactive effect, 
e.g. coverage declared void from the time of enrollment. It is not considered a 
rescission if termination of coverage has a prospective effect or is retroactive due to 
failure to timely pay premiums or contributions.
Service in the Uniformed Services
A term meaning: (a) the performance of a duty on a voluntary or involuntary basis in 
a Uniformed Service under competent authority and includes active duty, active and 
inactive duty for training, National Guard duty under Federal law, (b) a period for 
which a Covered Employee is absent from a position of employment for the purpose 
of an examination to determine the fitness of the Covered Employee to perform any 
such duty, (c) a period for which a Covered Employee is absent from employment to 
perform funeral honors duty as authorized by law, and (d) service as an intermittent 
disaster-response appointee upon activation of the National Disaster Medical System 
or as a participant in an authorized training program.
Short-Term Disability Leave
A leave of absence granted by the Company to a Covered Employee under the 
Cummins Inc. Short Term Disability Policy, as it may be amended from time to time. 
Skilled Nursing Facility
An institution that provides skilled nursing care (or convalescent care) after or instead 
of Hospital confinement.
Spouse
Your lawful husband or wife, determined under the laws of the State where you 
reside. 
Telehealth (Telemed) Services
Consultations with your physician (PCP/Specialist) using visual and audio 
(Computer, Smart Phone, Tablet)
Therapy Services
Services and supplies used to promote recovery from an illness or injury. Covered 
Therapy Services are limited to those services specifically listed in the COVERED 
SERVICES section.
Uniformed Services
The Armed Forces; the Army National Guard and Air National Guard when engaged 
in active duty for training, inactive duty training, or full-time National Guard duty; the 
commission corps of the Public Health Service; and any other category of persons 
designated by the President of the United States of America in time of war or 
emergency. For purposes of USERRA coverage only, services as an intermittent 
disaster response appointee of the NDMS when federally activated or attending 
authorized training in support of their Federal mission is deemed Service in the 
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB, LDD & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 18 -
Uniformed Services, although such appointee is not a member of the "uniformed 
services" as defined by USERRA.
Urgent and Urgent Care
An unexpected episode of illness or an injury requiring treatment, which cannot 
reasonably be postponed for regularly scheduled care, and the medical care for that 
illness or injury. 
USERRA
The "Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994," as 
amended.
Preface
This booklet is the Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan and Summary 
Plan Description ("Plan"). This Plan document provides a concise description of 
medical coverage available to you and your eligible Dependents. Every attempt has 
been made to make it non-technical and understandable. This document is the 
"summary plan description" (SPD) of the Plan required by the federal law known as 
ERISA. It is also the official Plan document. This Plan supersedes any previous plan 
documents and any provision or practice not consistent with this Plan.
Groups covered by this Summary Plan Description 
Non Bargained employees of Cummins Inc., bargained and non-bargained employees 
of the following integrated North American Distributors Cummins Rocky Mountain, 
Cummins Southern Plains, NPower, Cummins Mid-South, Cummins Central Power,
Cummins Northeast and Cummins Pacific (except Teamsters) and Cummins Inc.
employees represented by the following unions: DRC - IAM, DWU Base Business,
DWU CMEP, DWU LDD, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB.
Benefits are determined under the terms of the Plan in effect at the time you incur a 
charge for a Covered Service. 
The Company reserves the right to suspended, modify, or terminate these benefits at 
any time to the extent permitted by law. This Plan document does not constitute a 
contract of employment or a guarantee of any particular benefit. 
If you have questions about whether this Plan applies to you, please contact the CBS 
Benefits Contact Center toll free at (877) 377-4357 (see the CONTACTS section).
Introduction
The Company gives you the option to choose a medical plan that works best for you 
and your eligible Dependents.
This is one of two medical plans that offer the Health Savings Account (HSA) feature. 
An HSA is an account that you own. An HSA helps you save toward your current and 
future health care expenses on a tax-favored basis and lets you earn tax-free interest 
on the money in your account. If you choose to enroll in the Plan, you will have the 
opportunity to enroll in a HSA. 
If you are eligible to enroll in the Plan and elect to participate in the Plan, the Company 
may make a contribution to your HSA, according to the coverage level you select, and 
your income, to help you pay for your health care. The company will determine the HSA 
contribution level, if any, annually.
Here’s how the Plan works: 
• First you must satisfy the annual Deductible. For all medical care, including Non- Preventive Prescription Drugs, you must meet the Deductible before the Plan 
begins to pay benefits. This means that you pay the full cost of all health care 
expenses, including Non-Preventive Prescription Drugs, up to the Plan’s 
Deductible. You can use the funds in your HSA to help you pay for these 
expenses, if you choose. 
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 20 -
• If your eligible expenses exceed your Deductible, then Coinsurance begins. 
Coinsurance is where a portion of expenses are paid by you and a portion of 
expenses are paid by the Plan.
• Medical expenses that meet the Plan’s definition of “preventive care,” as 
described below, are not subject to the Deductible and do not apply toward your
Deductible. The Plan pays 100% of these expenses. 
• Expenses for Prescription Drugs that are classified as Preventive Prescription 
Drugs under the Plan are not subject to the Plan’s Deductible and do not apply 
toward your Deductible. You pay Coinsurance or Copays for these Preventive 
Prescription Drugs. These Preventive Prescription Drugs do count toward your
out of pocket limit. 
• For your added protection, the total amount you spend annually out of your 
pocket is limited. Once you spend the Out-of-Pocket Maximum, the Plan pays 
100% of the cost for certain Covered Services, including both Preventive and 
Non-preventive Prescription Drugs, for the remainder of the Plan Year. Your 
annual Out-of-Pocket Maximum consists of amounts you spend to satisfy the 
Deductible and your portion of Coinsurance, and Preventive and non-preventive
Prescription Drugs. 
Eligibility
Eligible Employees
This Plan applies to active Employees who are scheduled to work for the Company 
twenty or more hours per week, or who are on an approved leave of absence.
Eligible Dependents
You can cover certain Dependents under the Plan. Your eligible Dependents are any of 
the following:
• a Common-Law Spouse, if recognized by the State of residence;
• a legal Spouse;
• a Domestic Partner;
• a child under age 26; and
• an unmarried, Dependent child over age 26 if permanently and totally disabled
(as defined below).
Dependent children include:
• a natural child of the Employee, Employee's Spouse, or Domestic Partner;
• a legally adopted child of the Employee, Employee's Spouse, or Domestic 
Partner;
• a child for whom the Employee, Employee's Spouse, or Domestic Partner is the 
legal guardian (including a grandchild or foster child);
• a child placed for adoption, before the adoption is final;
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 21 -
• a child who the court has issued a QMCSO;
• a stepchild who is living with the Employee;
• a dependent of the Employee's Domestic Partner; or
• a Dependent recognized as a dependent by the IRS.
Note that although the Plan extends coverage to the children of a Domestic Partner, 
because such children would not be the legal stepchildren of the Employee, and would 
therefore have no legal relation to the Employee, premiums for coverage must be paid 
on an after-tax basis. Further, in other instances (such as most Domestic Partners), an 
eligible Dependent may not qualify as your dependent under the Internal Revenue 
Code, and benefit coverage for that Dependent may not be entitled to the same 
favorable tax treatment as provided to a Spouse or for a Dependent that is your 
dependent under the Internal Revenue Code. You should consult with your tax advisor 
for further details on the tax implications of this coverage.
A newborn child is eligible for coverage from birth if enrolled within 60 days of birth.
In the case of an adoption, a child becomes eligible for coverage when the child is 
placed in your home.
A child shall be considered to be “permanently and totally disabled” if such child is 
unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of a medically- determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death, or 
has lasted or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 
months. A disabled Dependent must be an unmarried child who is or has become 
permanently and totally disabled prior to age 26 and who is incapable of self-sustaining 
employment and is chiefly dependent upon you for support and maintenance (this 
means your child must live with you for more than ½ the year and provide not more than 
½ of his or her own support during the year). If the disabled Dependent child was 
eligible to be covered under the Plan prior to age 26, they must be enrolled in the Plan 
on their 26th birthday in order to continue coverage after the limiting age. Within 120 
days prior to the Dependent’s 26th birthday, you must initiate disabled status 
certification with the Claims Administrator. If the Dependent’s first eligibility for Plan 
coverage occurs after age 26 due to the parent being a new hire or the parent acquiring 
the Dependent due to marriage, an over age 26 disabled Dependent can only be 
enrolled during the initial 31-day enrollment period of their parent. A disabled 
Dependent must be enrolled prior to age 26 or within 31 days of their initial eligibility for 
coverage. You must re-certify a Dependent's disabled status if required to do so by the 
Claims Administrator or the Plan Administrator in order to continue coverage. If the 
disabled Dependent fails to be timely enrolled or there is a break in coverage, a 
disabled Dependent will no longer be eligible for coverage. A disabled Dependent over 
age 26 can not be enrolled during open enrollment.
If your Spouse/Domestic Partner is employed by the Company and is enrolled for 
Employee coverage under this Plan, you may not cover that person as a Dependent. In 
addition, only one of you may cover your Dependent children. You both cannot cover 
your child at the same time. 
You must notify the Company if you experience a change that will affect your 
Dependent's eligibility for benefits under the Plan within 31 days of the event date
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 22 -
Eligibility Ends
Your eligibility and your Dependents' eligibility to participate in this Plan ends when: 
• your employment at the Company ends;
• you are no longer working in a benefits-eligible position;
• you or your Dependent provide false information on enrollment forms, 
coordination of benefit forms, or claims;
• you fail to make your required contribution to the Plan;
• the Plan ends or the applicable portion of the Plan ends; or
• you are no longer receiving compensation through a disability plan or leave 
policy or you no longer qualify for health care coverage through the provisions of 
a disability plan or leave policy. For example, coverage will last no longer than 
24 months after the effective date of your disability under the Cummins Inc.
Long-Term Disability Policy. 
In addition, a Member's coverage will end when the Member becomes a full-time 
member of the armed forces of any county; however continuation coverage may be 
available as set forth in the USERRA RIGHTS AND COVERAGE section of this Plan.
Finally, with respect to a Dependent, the Dependent shall lose coverage the date the 
Dependent: (a) ceases to be classified as a Dependent (which for a Domestic Partner 
shall be when the relationship ends or any criteria for eligiblity benefits are not met); or 
(b) dies.
For information regarding rights you and your Dependents may each have to continue 
your health care benefits, refer to the COBRA section of this Plan. 
If you die while covered, group health benefits for your covered Dependents may be 
continued for up to 6 months after your death at the premium normally charged to active 
employees. Your covered Dependents must make the required premium payments 
during that period of time. If your Spouse remarries before the end of the 6 months, the 
health coverage for your covered Dependents will end when your Spouse remarries. 
Any coverage provided to your covered Dependents will run concurrently with any 
COBRA coverage available to your covered Dependents as a result of your death
The plan reserves the right to rescind coverage in the event of fraud or intentional 
misrepresentation of a material fact. The participant will be given at least 30 days 
advance written notice before the coverage is rescinded. It is not rescission if coverage 
is termed retroactively due to failure to pay required premiums or contributions. 
Changes in Status
Each Member is required to notify the Plan Administrator of any Qualifying Event. In 
addition, the Plan Administrator shall be notified as soon as possible of: (a) a change in 
address; (b) entrance into the military by the Member; (c) eligibility for and/or entitlement 
to Medicare; (d) an individual ceasing to be a Dependent under the terms of the Plan; or 
(e) any other change in status or other applicable event which might affect a Member's 
coverage under the Plan. Moreover, in the event of a change in circumstances which 
makes any part of the Affirmation of Domestic Partnership and Healthcare enrollment 
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 23 -
form inaccurate, you must notify the Plan Administrator within 31 days after a change in 
status.
A Member is responsible for notifying the Plan Administrator of any change in status or 
other applicable event, or the Member may be liable for the costs, fees, and expenses 
incurred by the Company for failure to notify. The Plan Administrator or the Claims 
Administrator may request whatever documentation it deems necessary to substantiate 
a claimed change in status or other applicable event.
Enrollment
Enrolling in the Plan
If you are a newly hired Employee, you have 31 days from your date of hire to enroll in 
Plan coverage for you and your Dependents. If you do not enroll within this timeframe, you will not be covered under the Plan. You will not have an opportunity to enroll in the 
Plan until the next open enrollment period. Refer to the CHANGES IN OPEN ENROLLMENT 
PERIOD section below for more information.
If you have a qualified change in family status or other cause for a change in election 
and become eligible for coverage during the Plan Year, you will have 31 days from the 
date of the event to make changes to your coverage. Refer to the CHANGES IN ELECTION
section for more information. 
When Coverage Begins
If you enroll in Plan coverage within 31 days, you and your eligible Dependents' 
coverage will become effective on your employment date.
If you have a qualified change in family status or other cause for a change in election 
and become eligible for coverage during the Plan Year, your coverage will start the date 
of the status/life event as long as you enroll in the Plan within 31 days after the event
If you are not Actively at Work on the date coverage is to begin, you and your eligible 
Dependents' coverage will start when you are Actively at Work. If you are not Actively 
at Work due to a health status-related factor, as defined in HIPAA, you will still be 
treated as if you were Actively at Work for purposes of determining when your coverage 
begins.
Making Changes
You may enroll, waive or change your level of coverage (e.g., from Employee only to 
Employee plus Spouse due to your marriage) during the year if you have a qualified 
change in family status; otherwise, you may only make changes during open 
enrollment. Note that you may change plans (e.g., from HSA 1500 to HSA 3000) only 
at open enrollment.
Changes in Election
If you have a qualified change in family status, you can change your existing Plan 
coverage level. Any change in election due to a qualified change in family status must 
be consistent with the qualified change in family status. You must make changes to 
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 24 -
your coverage within 31 days of your qualified change in family status. The following is 
a list of events that are considered to be a "qualified change in family status:" 
• a change in employment status for your Spouse/Domestic Partner that affects 
your eligibility for benefits;
• a change in the benefit plan available to your Spouse or Domestic Partner;
• birth, adoption, or the placement of a child for adoption with you and your Spouse
or Domestic Partner;
• death of your Spouse or Domestic Partner or covered Dependent child;
• divorce, annulment or legal separation from your Spouse;
• issuance of a court order or legal decree requiring coverage of a Dependent
child/Domestic Partner’s child;
• termination of your Spouse's or Domestic Partner's employment,
• marriage or acquisition of a new Domestic Partner; or
• termination of Domestic Partnership.
If you become eligible for premium assistance under Medicaid or CHIP programs, 
or lose eligibility for coverage under Medicaid or CHIP programs, you have 60 
days to enroll under this plan (if eligible). 
You may also make changes to your Plan coverage to the extent that the Company's 
Cafeteria Plan would allow for a change of election under the Cafeteria Plan. 
Generally, changes you make after a qualified change in family status become effective 
the date of the status/life event.
If your Domestic Partnership ends you will not be eligible to cover a new Domestic 
Partner for another six months. The six-month limitation applies to your Domestic 
Partner if he/she also works for the Company.
If you are a Member or if you were eligible for the Plan but had previously waived 
coverage for any reason, and you acquire a new Dependent through marriage, 
Domestic Partner arrangement, birth, adoption or placement for adoption, or legal 
guardianship, becoming a foster parent, or becoming a stepparent, you may enroll as a 
Member any of the following individuals: (a) yourself; (b) the new Dependent child; (c) 
any existing Dependent children; and/or (d) your Spouse or the Domestic Partner. 
If you are otherwise eligible for coverage under this Plan, you may enroll as a Member, 
and a Dependent of an Employee eligible for the Plan who is otherwise eligible for 
coverage under this Plan may be enrolled by you as a Member, if the following 
requirements are met:
• you previously declined coverage under this Plan for yourself or your
Dependents because either you or your Dependents had coverage under 
another group health plan or other health insurance;
• you and/or your Dependents actually had other health coverage at the time 
coverage under this Plan was declined;
• the other health coverage is lost due to "exhaustion of the COBRA continuation 
period," "loss of eligibility" under the other coverage, or cessation of company 
contributions to the other coverage, as those terms are defined below.
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 25 -
In order for changes under this section to be effective, you must (a) contact the Plan 
Administrator; (b) certify the date the Dependent was acquired; (c) agree to make the 
required Premiums; and (d) make this election within 31 days after the date of acquiring 
a new Dependent, or after the loss of other coverage due to "exhaustion of the COBRA 
continuation period," "loss of eligibility," or cessation of Company contributions, as 
applicable. You may not enroll a Dependent under this subsection if you are not 
already a Member or if you are not enrolling yourself at the same time.
For purposes of this section, "exhaustion of a COBRA continuation period" means that 
an individual's COBRA continuation period ceases for any reason other than either 
failure of the individual to pay premiums on a timely basis or for cause. For purposes of 
this subsection, "loss of eligibility" includes a loss of coverage as a result of legal 
separation, divorce, cessation of dependent status (due, for example, to reaching the 
maximum age for child coverage), death, termination of employment (other than for 
cause), reduction in the number of hours of employment, and any loss of eligibility after 
a period that is measured by reference to any of the foregoing. "Loss of eligibility" also 
includes being a member of a class for which the Plan no longer offers coverage. "Loss 
of eligibility" does not occur if the individual failed to pay premiums on a timely basis or if 
coverage was terminated for cause.
Changes During Open Enrollment
You may change your Plan coverage once a year during open enrollment, except as 
provided in the CHANGES IN ELECTION section. 
During the open enrollment period, you may do any of the following: 
• drop your coverage;
• elect coverage if previously waived;
• change the level of your coverage, e.g., from Employee to Employee plus family, 
Employee plus Spouse/Domestic Partner, or Employee plus child(ren)/Domestic 
Partner child(ren); or
• change from your current Plan to an optional plan available.
All changes in coverage made during open enrollment will become effective on the first 
day of the new Plan Year. 
Other Enrollment and Election Issues
• Dependents shall be covered simultaneously with you. A newborn Dependent 
must be separately enrolled in order to be covered retroactively from the moment 
of birth.
• If you cease to be eligible for coverage pursuant to the provisions of the Plan, but
your employment with the Company continues, and you later become eligible for 
coverage again, you shall be allowed to reenter the Plan immediately if you elect 
coverage again within 31 days after you become eligible for coverage again. 
• If you terminate employment with the Company and then return to employment 
with the Company as an Employee, you shall be allowed to reenter the Plan 
immediately if you elect coverage again within 31 days after you are rehired and 
you are in a benefits eligible position. If you change your employment status 
from Covered Employee to Dependent or Dependent to Covered Employee and 
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 26 -
you are continuously covered under the Plan before, during, and after the 
change, credit will be given for Deductibles and all amounts applied to 
maximums.
• If you are married to another Employee, each Employee can be covered as an 
Employee or one Employee can cover the other Employee as a Dependent.
• If you have a Domestic Partner relationship with a Domestic Partner who is also 
an Employee, each Employee can be covered as an Employee or one Employee 
can cover the other Employee as a Dependent.
• A Dependent may only be covered by one Employee.
• If 2 Employees are married and covered under the Plan and the Covered 
Employee who is covering the Dependent Child terminates coverage, the 
Dependent coverage may be continued by the other Covered Employee with no 
waiting periods or eligibility criteria as long as coverage has been continuous.
Family and Medical Leave Act
The Plan provides continuation coverage consistent with the provisions of the Family 
and Medical Leave Act of 1993, as amended ("FMLA").
The FMLA generally allows certain Employees the right to take an unpaid leave or a 
paid leave (if it has been earned under Company's policy) for a period of up to 12 work 
weeks in a rolling 12 month period because of: (a) the birth of a Child and to care for 
such Child, (b) the placement of a Child for adoption or foster care, and to care for such 
Child, (c) the need to care for a family member (child, Spouse, or parent) with a "serious 
health condition" as defined under the FMLA, (d) because of an Employee's own 
"serious health condition" which makes the Employee unable to do his or her job; or (e) 
any qualifying exigency arising out of the fact that the Spouse, son, daughter, or parent 
of the Employee is on duty (or has been notified of an impending call or order to active 
duty) in the Armed Forces in support of a contingency operation.
Notwithstanding any other provisions in the Plan to the contrary, under the FMLA a 
Covered Employee is entitled to continue health care coverage under the Plan during 
the period the Covered Employee is on a FMLA leave, provided the Covered Employee 
continues to pay the required contributions. The health care coverage provided 
pursuant to the FMLA under the Plan is the same as would be provided if the Covered 
Employee had been employed during the leave period. The Covered Employee may 
choose not to continue health care coverage under the Plan during the FMLA leave, in 
which case the Covered Employee shall be immediately reinstated to health care 
coverage under the Plan when the Covered Employee returns from the FMLA leave and 
re-enrolls in the Plan within 31 days of the Employee's return.
FMLA health care benefit coverage shall terminate when:
• the Covered Employee informs the Company of his or her intent not to return 
from FMLA leave;
• the Covered Employee fails to return from the FMLA leave; or
• the Covered Employee exhausts his or her FMLA leave.
Covered Employees on FMLA leave are required to continue to pay required Premiums 
toward coverage during the FMLA leave. If the FMLA leave is substituted by paid leave, 
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 27 -
Premiums may be made by payroll deduction under the Cummins Inc. Cafeteria Plan. If 
the FMLA leave is unpaid leave, Premiums may be made at the same time as the 
Premium would be made by payroll deduction. Failure of a Covered Employee to pay 
his or her share of Premiums within 30 days after the due date shall result in termination 
of coverage, provided the Company has given the Covered Employee 15 days advance 
written notice of the termination of coverage. If coverage ends due to the failure to 
make timely Premiums, the Covered Employee shall be entitled to immediate 
reinstatement of health care coverage under the Plan on the Covered Employee's return 
from the FMLA leave as long as the Employee re-enrolls in the Plan within 31 days of 
the Employee's return. Any changes by the Company to Covered Employee Premiums 
shall apply while the Covered Employee is on FMLA leave.
The Company may recover from the Covered Employee its share of Premiums paid by 
the Company during a period of unpaid FMLA leave in order to maintain the Covered 
Employee's coverage, if the Covered Employee fails to return from work after a FMLA 
leave has been exhausted, unless the failure to return to work is due to a serious health 
condition of the Covered Employee or a family member or other circumstances beyond 
the Covered Employee's control. In addition, the Company may recover from the 
Covered Employee the Employee's share of the Premiums which the Company paid on 
the Covered Employee's behalf to maintain coverage, regardless of whether the 
Employee returns from FMLA leave.
Cost
Cost of Coverage
The Company pays a portion of your medical coverage. You pay your portion of the 
cost through payroll deductions. This is known as your Premium.
To help lower your cost, your contributions are deducted from your pay on a pretax
basis.
Your contributions for Plan coverage are based on the level of coverage you choose. 
The coverage levels are:
• Employee;
• Employee + Spouse / Domestic Partner;
• Employee + child(ren) / Domestic Partner child(ren); and
• Employee + family.
If you elect medical coverage for your nontax-qualified Domestic Partner or Domestic 
Partner's Dependents, you will be responsible for the imputed income tax. That means 
that the portion of the Company-paid contributions that is for your nontax-qualified
Domestic Partner and your nontax-qualified Domestic Partner's Dependents will be 
added to taxable income. The Company's contribution toward nontax-qualified
Domestic Partner coverage will, in most cases, be considered imputed income and will 
be taxable income to you. In addition, the Premiums that you pay that are attributable 
to nontax-qualified Domestic Partners or their Dependents may not be paid by you on a 
pretax basis.
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 28 -
Your Premiums are subject to change (but normally not more often than annually). In 
general, any adjustments will be effective January 1. You will be notified in advance of 
any rate changes.
Deductibles
The Deductible is the amount of money you must pay each Plan Year for Covered 
Services before the Plan begins to pay benefits for services at the applicable 
Coinsurance rate. These expenses include all medical care as well as Non-Preventive
Prescription Drugs. Under the Plan, you are subject to a Deductible for these InNetwork and Out-Of-Network expenses. The Plan has both Individual and Family 
Deductibles. Deductible amounts are based on the level of coverage you elect. 
Expenses for certain Preventive Prescription Drugs are not subject to the Deductible
and do not apply toward your Deductible. However, these expenses do apply toward
the Out-of-Pocket Maximum. 
Individual Deductible
The Individual Deductible applies to each Member. Once you meet the Individual 
Deductible, the Plan begins paying benefits for non-preventive care services at the 
applicable Coinsurance rate. Once you pay the Out-Of-Network Deductible, you do not
need to pay an additional In-Network Deductible. Also, if you pay your In-Network 
Deductible, you can apply it to your Out-Of-Network Deductible and pay the difference if 
you incur Out-Of-Network expenses.
Family Deductible
The Family Deductible is met after Covered Expenses have been incurred in total by 
two or more covered family members during a Plan Year. When this happens, the 
Deductible for the entire family is satisfied for the remainder of that Plan Year. This plan 
includes an individual deductible cap within the family deductible. 
Annual Out-of-Pocket Maximum
The annual Out-of-Pocket Maximum is the maximum amount you pay for your share of 
Covered Expenses each year. The Plan has both individual and family Out-of-Pocket 
Maximums.
Individual Out-of-Pocket Maximum
The individual Out-of-Pocket Maximum applies to each Member. Expenses for the InNetwork Out-of-Pocket Maximum also apply to the Out-of-Network Out-of-Pocket 
Maximums.
Family Out-of-Pocket Maximum
To meet the family Out-of-Pocket Maximum, all family members' eligible out-of-pocket 
expenses combined count toward the family Out-of-Pocket Maximum. Once you reach 
the individual Out-of-Pocket Maximum, the plan pays 100% of the contracted rate of InNetwork covered costs and 100% of the Reasonable Charge of Out-Of-Network 
covered costs, for the member who has reached the individual Out-of-Pocket for the 
rest of the calendar year. Once the family Out-of-Pocket Maximum has been reached, 
the plan pays 100% of the contracted rate of In-Network covered costs and 100% of the 
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 29 -
Reasonable Charge of Out-Of-Network covered costs, for all covered members. Refer 
to the REASONABLE CHARGE section for more information.
Expenses that count toward your annual Out-of-Pocket Maximum include:
• Coinsurance;
• Deductible;
• retail Preventive and Non-Preventive Prescription Drugs, including Coinsurance 
and minimum amounts; 
• mail order Preventive and Non-Preventive Prescription Drugs, including Copays; 
and
• Specialty Preventive and Non-Preventive Prescription Drugs, including Copays.
These expenses do not apply to the Out-of-Pocket Maximum:
• charges above the Reasonable Charge;
• charges that exceed individual benefit maximums;
• dental charges covered by the dental plan;
• dental deductibles;
• expenses for services that are not Medically Necessary or are not covered by the 
Plan; and
• Plan penalties.
Lifetime Maximum Benefit
The lifetime maximum benefit is the limit the Plan will pay in each Member's lifetime. 
There is no lifetime maximum on overall benefits; however there are maximums on 
specific benefit categories. Lifetime maximum benefits are:
• $15,000 fertility treatment, per family
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 30 -
Health Savings Account (HSA)
Under the Plan, there is a Health Savings Account (HSA). The HSA is a tax-favored 
account that you own and manage. The account is funded by both you and the 
Company when you select the HSA custodian with whom the Company partners. 
The Company will not make contributions to an HSA that you open with a different 
custodian. The HSA can be used to help pay for current eligible health care expenses. 
Alternatively, you can pay for your out-of-pocket health care expenses and allow the 
funds in your HSA to grow with interest, tax free, for use in the future. 
Eligibility to Open and Contribute to an HSA
The federal government has specific rules on who can open an HSA. You can open 
and contribute to a tax-favored HSA if you meet all of the following cririteria. You:
• are enrolled in a HDHP such as the Plan;
• are a U.S. resident and not a resident of Puerto Rico or American Samoa;
• are not enrolled in Medicare;
• are not claimed as a Dependent on another individual’s tax return;
• have no other non-high deductible health plan (e.g., first-dollar) coverage (with 
certain exceptions for plans providing preventive care and limited types of 
permitted insurance and permitted coverage, such as dental and vision 
coverage);
• are not contributing to or covered by a general-purpose health care flexible 
spending account and/or Health Reimbursement Arrangement;
• are not covered by government military health care plan (for example, 
TRICARE); and
• have not received medical care at the VA in the last three months that wasn’t 
preventive or treatment for a service connected disability.
Employees enrolled in the Plan are responsible for determining whether they meet 
these requirements. For more information about qualifying for an HSA, refer to IRS 
Publication 969 by visiting the IRS web site at www.irs.gov or by calling the IRS at 800-
829-3676. 
About Other Health Care Coverage and HSA Eligibility
Before you enroll, you should be aware of specific IRS rules regarding HSA 
eligibility. Because the HSA is an account that you own and control, you are 
responsible for following the IRS rules. Violating these rules may result in additional 
taxes and penalties.
If you are covered by another health care plan that is not a qualified High Deductible 
Health Plan (HDHP), you cannot contribute to an HSA or accept the the Company's 
contribution to an HSA. Examples of other health care coverage include:
• coverage under a Health Care Flexible Spending Account plan;
• spouse coverage (traditional HMO, PPO or Flexible Spending Account coverage 
through your Spouse's employer);
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 31 -
• military coverage (e.g., TRICARE or Veterans Administration benefits in the last 
3 months); and
• Medicare coverage
If you have other health care coverage, you can enroll in the medical portion of the Plan, but you will not be eligible to make or receive HSA contributions. Please consider this 
carefully before enrolling in the Plan.
Coordination with Onsite Medical Care. Some Company facilities offer medical care. 
Company onsite health centers are primarily focused on occupational care (for work- related injuries) but some provide convenient acute care (for non-work-related illnesses, 
such as colds or sore throats). IRS rules require that anyone participating in the Plan 
must pay the full cost of care up to the Deductible amount (with certain exceptions for 
preventive care). This means if you enroll in the Plan, the Company will no longer be 
able to provide acute care at no cost to you. Participants in the HSA 3000 Plan who 
receive acute care at Company health centers will be required to pay a fee. 
Before you enroll, you may also want to review the HSA Deposit Agreement & 
Disclosure Statement in the Appendix of this Plan. Note also that the Company pays 
the set-up and monthly administrative fees for your HSA while you are enrolled in the 
Plan. However, you’ll be responsible for other banking service fees (e.g., ATM usage, 
stop check service, checkbook reorder, etc.) Refer to the Health Savings Account Fee 
and Rate Schedule in the Appendix of this Plan for details. You will be mailed one set 
of checks and one debit card free of charge with your initial enrollment. Additional debit 
cards and checks can be ordered for a fee. 
Questions? The Company is pleased to offer the Plan. It takes advantage of many of 
the options provided by the federal government to make health care more affordable. 
But, it's important to understand the rules around HSAs and make your choice carefully. 
If you have any questions, please visit www.irs.gov, check your enrollment guide or call 
the CBS Benefits Contact Center at 1-877-377-4357, Monday through Friday from 7:00 
a.m. to 5:00 p.m. CT.
HSA Contributions
You have several options to fund your HSA: 
• you may make pre-tax payroll contributions to the HSA;
• the Company may also make contributions to your HSA according to your Base 
Salary and the coverage level you select;
• you may make after-tax contributions by personal check and when you file your 
taxes, you can make an adjustment to your gross income to receive the tax 
benefit; and/or
• anyone may contribute to your HSA, but the total contributions to your HSA may
not exceed your maximum allowable annual limit.
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 32 -
IRS Limits for 2021 HSA Contributions
Contributions to your HSA (whether made by you or the Company) may not exceed 
certain limits set annually by the IRS. For 2021, the maximum annual contribution limit 
is $3,600 for individual coverage and $7,200 for family coverage. Contributions to your 
HSA that exceed the maximum annual contribution limit as well as income attributable 
to excess contributions are included in taxable income and are subject to an additional 
six percent excise tax if they are not taken out of your account by the date that your 
federal income tax return is due (including extensions) (generally, April 15 if you file 
your taxes on a calendar-year basis). 
Note: Some states (Alabama, California and New Jersey, as of January 2011) will 
apply state income taxes to your HSA contribution. Regardless of which state you live 
in, you will still have the before-tax savings advantage on federal and FICA taxes. For 
details on how your state treats HSA contributions, visit www.irs.gov.
If you are eligible to enroll in the Plan and elect to participate in the Plan in 2021, the 
Company makes a contribution to your HSA to help you pay for your health care 
according to the coverage level you select. If your Base Salary is $40,000 or less, the 
annual Company contribution is $1,000 for individual coverage or $2,000 for family 
coverage. If your Base Salary is more than $40,000 the annual Company contribution 
is $500 for individual coverage or $1,000 for family coverage. If you are enrolled in the 
Plan on January 1, you are eligible for the full annual Company contribution to be made 
to your HSA.
Because the Company is making a contribution to your HSA, this counts against the 
annual maximum and will reduce the amount that you can contribute to the account. 
The charts below show the applicable Employee maximum contribution amounts if you 
are enrolled in the Plan on January 1, 2021.
"Catch-up" Contributions
If you are 55 or older, you are allowed to make a "catch-up" contribution to your HSA 
each year until you enroll in Medicare. The catch-up contribution limit for 2021 is 
$1,000. This amount is in addition to the amount you are normally allowed to 
contribute. The charts below show how the catch-up contribution can affect the 
maximum total and Employee contribution limits.
2021 HSA Maximum Contribution Table
Step 1: 
Determine 
your Base 
Salary
Step 2: 
What is 
your age 
as of 
12/31/21?
Step 3: The maximum amount you can contribute to 
your HSA in 2021*
Employee 
Only
Employee + 
Spouse/ Domestic 
Partner**
Employee 
+ 
Child(ren)
Employee 
+ Family
If your 
Base 
Salary is 
If you are 
under age 
55
$2,600 $5,200 $5,200 $5,200
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 33 -
less than 
or equal to 
$40,000
If you are 
over age 
55***
$3,600 $6,200 $6,200 $6,200
If your 
Base 
Salary is 
over 
$40,000
If you are
under age 
55
$3,100 $6,200 $6,200 $6,200
If you are 
over age 
55***
$4,100 $7,200 $7,200 $7,200
* Reflects the full annual Company HSA contribution. ** Nontax-qualified Domestic Partners should consider opening their own HSA 
because they are not an eligible Dependent under the Employee's HSA.
*** Spouses can have their own HSA for "catch-up" contributions, but total 
combined accounts cannot exceed $9,100 (including contributions from both the 
Company and Plan participants) in 2021. 
New Employees
The annual Company contribution is pro-rated for new Employees who are hired after 
January 1, and enroll in the Plan in 2021. New Employees who enroll in the Plan 
receive a pro-rated lump sum Company contribution to their HSA allocation based on 
the month following the month in which they enroll in the Plan. If enrollment in the Plan 
is effective the first day of the month, Employees will receive credit for the month of 
enrollment in the HSA. 
• Example: An Employee is hired with a Base Salary of $41,000 and enrolls in 
“Employee Only” coverage in the Plan effective February 15. The new Employee 
opens an HSA under the Plan shortly thereafter. As soon as administratively 
feasible, the Company contributes $417 ($500 x 10/12) to the Employee’s HSA.
Enrollment Changes During the Plan Year
For enrollment changes during the Plan Year, the Company contribution will not 
change. 
• Example: An Employee has family coverage under the Plan at the beginning of 
the Plan Year and has a qualified status change to individual coverage effective 
June 30 during the Plan Year. At the beginning of the Plan Year, the Company 
contributed $1,000 to the Employee’s HSA under the Plan. At the date of the 
status change, no adjustment is made to the Company contribution amount. 
New Enrollments During the Plan Year
Employees who enroll in the Plan during the Plan Year due to a qualified life event will 
receive a pro-rated lump sum Company contribution in based on the number of full 
months remaining in the year, measured from the month following the month in which 
they enroll in the Plan. If enrollment in the Plan is effective the first day of the month, 
Employees will receive credit for the month of enrollment in the HSA. 
• Example: Employee enrolls in “Employee Only” coverage in the Plan effective 
February 15, and opens an HSA with the Company’s designated HSA 
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 34 -
trustee/custodian in a timely manner. As soon as administratively feasible, the 
Company will contribute $417 ($500 x 10/12) to the Employee’s HSA.
Company contributions will only be made to Employees newly enrolled during the Plan 
Year that open an HSA with the Company’s designated HSA trustee/custodian within 60 
days of their Plan coverage Effective Date. Employees that elect the Plan and do not 
open the HSA with the Company’s designated HSA trustee/custodian within 60 days of 
their Plan coverage Effective Date will lose their right to receive the Company 
contribution.
Under the “last month” rule, you may contribute a full year’s contribution (plus the catch- up, if applicable) if you become eligible for the HSA any time during the Plan Year, if 
you are an eligible individual on December 1st of the Plan Year. If you contribute a full 
Plan Year’s contribution but remain eligible for only part of the following Plan Year, you 
may be subject to taxes and penalties if you do not remain eligible for 12 months after 
the Plan Year in which you first become eligible. You may want to prorate your HSA 
contributions during your first partial year of enrollment to 1/12th of the annual maximum 
for each month you are covered under the Plan in order to avoid over contributing for 
the year.
Participants in the Plan are responsible for determining whether they meet the HSA tax- favored contribution and distribution eligibility requirements. A summary of the rules 
regarding Health Savings Account contributions are set forth in the Cummins Inc. 
Cafeteria Plan document. You can find more information on HSAs by visiting the U.S. 
Treasury Department’s Web site at www.treas.gov. Click on "Health Savings 
Accounts” for answers to frequently asked questions and related IRS forms and 
publications. 
HSA Distributions
Distributions from the HSA are tax-free if used for “qualified medical expenses” as 
defined by the IRS. Qualified medical expenses must be incurred on or after the HSA 
was established. Medical expenses incurred before the date your HSA is established 
are not eligible to be reimbursed from the account. 
• If HSA 3000 coverage is effective on the first day of the month, the HSA can be 
established as early as the first day of the same month. 
• If HSA 3000 coverage is effective any day other than the first day of the month, 
the HSA cannot be established until the first day of the following month. 
Tax-free distributions can be taken for qualified medical expenses of:
• the Employee:
• the Spouse of the Employee (even if the Spouse is not covered under the Plan 
and even if the Spouse is covered under a different employer’s health insurance 
plan); and
• any tax-eligible Dependent of the Employee (even if the Dependent is not 
covered under the Plan and even if the Dependent is covered under a different 
employer’s health insurance plan). Note that for these purposes, Dependent 
does not include Domestic Partners or their Dependents that you may not claims 
as a dependent on your federal tax return.
If the distribution is not used for qualified medical expenses:
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 35 -
• the amount of the distibution is included in your income; and
• a 20% additional tax is applicable, except when the distribution is taken after:
o you die or becomes disabled; or
o you turn age 65.
For a complete list of qualified medical expenses, refer to the IRS Publication 502 by 
visiting the IRS web site at www.irs.gov or by calling the IRS at 800-829-3676. 
Remember to keep your receipts for distributions because, in the event of an IRS audit, 
you may need to prove to the IRS that distributions from the HSA were for qualified 
medical expenses and not otherwise reimbursed. Keep records sufficient to prove that 
the expenses were incurred and not paid for or reimbursed by another source or taken 
as an itemized deduction. 
Unused funds within the HSA at the end of the Plan Year continue to be yours to 
manage. The funds in your HSA are always 100% owned by you regardless of how 
long you have been with the Company and regardless of whether you leave the 
Company. The funds can be used in the next year, any later year, or saved for 
retirement.
Because the HSA is portable, an Employee who terminates employment with the 
Company during the Plan Year continues to own the account. Your HSA will have 
monthly account maintenance fees. The Company will pay these fees for you as long 
as you are covered under the Plan. If you no longer are covered under the Plan 
(because, for example, you switch Plan options or you terminate employment), you will 
be responsible for paying the monthly account maintenance service fee for as long as 
you maintain the HSA.
In the event of your death, the unused portion of the HSA is transferred to your named
beneficiary. If your named beneficiary is your surviving Spouse, then the HSA simply 
transfers into his or her name and there is no taxation on the account. If your named 
beneficiary is someone other than your Spouse, your account is distributed to that 
beneficiary and the beneficiary is taxed on the distribution.
Remember, any distributions from the HSA that are used to pay for qualified medical 
expenses are not taxable as income. All distributions used for any reason other than 
qualified medical expenses are subject to income tax (and potentially an additional 20% 
penalty). It is your responsibility to report your distributions through your tax-filing 
process. 
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 36 -
Plan Benefit
Schedule of Benefits
HSA 3000 Plan
Plan feature In-Network Coverage Out-of-Network Coverage
Your Doctor You choose an In-Network 
Provider
You choose an Out-of-Network 
Provider
Annual Deductible - amount 
you must pay before the Plan 
pays benefits
Single $3,000
Family $6,000
Plan Coinsurance 80% of the 
contracted rate
Single $6,000
Family $12,000
Plan Coinsurance 50% of the 
Reasonable Charge
Salary < $40,000
Annual Out-of-Pocket 
Maximum - highest amount of 
Covered Expenses you pay 
per year
Out-of-Pocket Maximum 
(includes Deductible):
Single $3,500
Family $7,000 
Out-of-Pocket Maximum 
(includes Deductible):
Single $7,000
Family $14,000 
Salary $40,001 - $50,000
Annual Out-of-Pocket 
Maximum - highest amount of 
Covered Expenses you pay 
per year
Out-of-Pocket Maximum 
(includes Deductible):
Single $4,000
Family $8,000 
Out-of-Pocket Maximum 
(includes Deductible):
Single $8,000
Family $16,000 
Salary $50,001 - $60,000
Annual Out-of-Pocket 
Maximum - highest amount of 
Covered Expenses you pay 
per year
Out-of-Pocket Maximum 
(includes Deductible):
Single $4,500
Family $9,000 
Out-of-Pocket Maximum 
(includes Deductible):
Single $9,000
Family $18,000 
Salary > $60,001
Annual Out-of-Pocket 
Maximum - highest amount of 
Covered Expenses you pay 
per year
Out-of-Pocket Maximum 
(includes Deductible):
Single $5,500
Family $11,000 
Out-of-Pocket Maximum 
(includes Deductible):
Single $11,000
Family $22,000 
Lifetime Maximum Unlimited
Medical - Physician Services (Plan payments after you meet Deductible)
Primary care office visit
(including Telehealth) 
80% of the contracted rate 50% of the Reasonable Charge
Specialty care office visit 80% of the contracted rate 50% of the Reasonable Charge
Allergy testing 80% of the contracted rate 50% of the Reasonable Charge
Allergy shots 80% of the contracted rate when 
rendered in the Physician office 50% of the Reasonable Charge
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 37 -
Maternity care 80% of the contracted rate 50% of the Reasonable Charge
Anesthesia, radiology, 
pathology 80% of the contracted rate 50% of the Reasonable Charge
Inpatient Medical – Facility (Plan payments after you meet Deductible)
General Hospital (room & 
board and ancillary facility 
services)
80% of the contracted rate 50% of the Provider's rate
Inpatient Medical - Professional Services (Plan payments after you meet Deductible)
Anesthesiologist 80% of the contracted rate 50% of the Reasonable Charge
Radiologist 80% of the contracted rate 50% of the Reasonable Charge
Pathologist 80% of the contracted rate 50% of the Reasonable Charge
Physician/surgeon Providers 80% of the contracted rate 50% of the Reasonable Charge
Outpatient Medical – Facility (Plan payments after you meet Deductible)
Emergency room/Emergency 
care
80% of the contracted rate 80% of the Provider's rate
Laboratory
80% of the contracted rate in a 
Hospital or outpatient facility and 
80% of the contracted rate in an 
office setting
50% of the Reasonable Charge 
in a Hospital facility and 50% of 
the Reasonable Charge in an 
office setting
Radiology 80% of the contracted rate 50% of the Provider's rate
Observation room 80% of the contracted rate 50% of the Provider's rate
Therapies & Other Services (Plan payments after you meet Deductible)
Physical therapy 80% of the contracted rate 50% of the Reasonable Charge
Speech therapy 80% of the contracted rate 50% of the Reasonable Charge
Dyslexia and ADHD 80% of the contracted rate 50% of the Reasonable Charge
Respiratory therapy 80% of the contracted rate 50% of the Reasonable Charge
Chemotherapy 80% of the contracted rate 50% of the Reasonable Charge
Radiation therapy 80% of the contracted rate 50% of the Reasonable Charge
Chiropractic services 
(excludes diagnostics such as 
lab and x-rays)
80% of the contracted rate 50% of the Reasonable Charge
Mental Health (Inpatient) 80% of the contracted rate 50% of the Provider's rate
Mental Health (Outpatient) 80% of the contracted rate 50% of the Reasonable Charge
Substance Abuse Services
(Inpatient)
80% of the contracted rate 50% of the Reasonable Charge
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 38 -
Substance Abuse Services
(Outpatient)
80% of the contracted rate 50% of the Reasonable Charge
Skilled nursing facility
80% of the contracted rate (365 
days in- and Out-of-Network 
combined)
50% of the Provider's rate (365 
days in- and Out-of-Network 
combined)
Extended care facility 80% of the contracted rate 50% of the Provider's rate
Rehabilitation facility 80% of the contracted rate 50% of the Provider's rate
Home health services & 
supplies 80% of the contracted rate 50% of the Reasonable Charge
Ambulance
(Emergency only)
80% of the contracted rate (only 
if Medically Necessary, not just 
for transportation)
80% of the Provider's rate (only 
if Medically Necessary, not just 
for transportation)
Hospice 80% of the contracted rate 50% of the Reasonable Charge
Durable Medical 
Equipment(DME) / Prosthetics 80% of the contracted rate 50% of the Reasonable Charge
Diabetes Education 80% of the contracted rate 50% of the Reasonable Charge
Infertility
(includes treatment and 
drugs)
80% of the contracted rate 
($15,000 lifetime maximum 
combined In-Network and Outof-Network, per family)
50% of the Reasonable Charge 
($15,000 lifetime maximum 
combined In-Network and Outof-Network, per family)
Preventive services
Preventive immunizations 100% of the contracted rate 100% of the Provider rate 
Preventive Care Benefit
(including labs)
Plan pays 100%
(not subject to Deductible or 
Out-of-Pocket Maximum)
None
Covered Services
Under the Plan, the following services are covered at the standard benefit amount:
• acupuncture;
• assistant surgeon fees;
• blood and blood plasma;
• circumcision;
• doctor's office visits;
• Hospital room and board at the semi-private room rate;
• occupational therapy;
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 39 -
• physical therapy;
• pre-admission surgical testing;
• retail, mail order and specialty pharmacy;
• surgeon fees;
• laboratory tests;
• x-rays; and
• chiropractic services.
Refer to the specific sections for information about Prescription Drugs, Preventive Care, 
Emergency Room, Hospice Care, Mental Health Conditions, Substance Abuse and 
Maternity Hospital Stay.
The Plan covers the following, based on certain rules and restrictions specified in this 
document:
• allergy test and treatment;
• ambulance service to the nearest Hospital;
• birthing center if it is a freestanding unit or a separate wing of a qualified Hospital 
with Emergency transport facilities in case complications require immediate 
transfer of the mother or child to the Hospital;
• breast implant after mastectomy;
• dental treatment for accidental injury when performed within 12 months of the 
accident or injury to the jaw or to sound natural teeth, or removal of impacted 
wisdom teeth;
• diagnostic tests including x-ray and lab tests;
• hearing care, including cochlear implants when medical necessary. Excludes
audiometric exams;
• Hearing aids purchased to correct general hearing loss associated with aging for 
dependent children up to age 26. Diagnoses for adults that appear to be for 
specific medical conditions and not aging will be reviewed on a case by case 
basis for coverage.
• Hearing aid may be replaced once every 3 years. Excludes batteries and 
repairs. Cochlear implants for adult and children (ages consistent with FDA 
indications) are covered for the following diagnosis: severe to profound 
bilateral sensorineural hearing loss and severely deficient speech 
discrimination; or post-lingual sensorineural deafness in an adult. Coverage to 
include the hearing aid, dispensing fee, molds, and impressions
• Home Health Care for services provided by a state- or locally-licensed Home 
Health Care Agency qualified by Medicare to provide skilled nursing and other 
therapeutic services. Covered Services include: skilled nursing care, home 
health aid service, rehabilitative care, occupational, vocational, speech, physical 
and respiratory therapy, medical and surgical supplies and nutritional guidance 
therapy. All care must be supervised by a registered nurse or a doctor;
• maternity care;
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 40 -
• penile implants, must meet “medical necessity”
• Skilled Nursing Facility expenses including semi-private room and board, nursing 
care, x-rays and laboratory examinations, physical, occupational or speech 
therapy, oxygen and gas therapy, drugs, solutions, dressings and casts, other 
related service customarily provided to patients; 
• speech therapy; 
• transgender related services, including sex reassignment surgery; and
• services related to the diagnosis or treatment of autism, hyperkinetic syndrome, 
learning disabilities, developmental delays or mental retardation include speech, 
occupational therapy, physical therapy, ABA, psychological services, and 
assistive devices. 
Refer to the DICTIONARY TERMS section for a list of definitions for Covered Services.
Accident Related Dental Services
Generally, dental expenses are not covered under the Plan. However, Outpatient 
Services, Physician Office Services, Emergency Care Services and Urgent Care 
Services for dental work and oral surgery are covered if they are for the initial repair of 
an injury to the jaw, sound natural teeth, mouth or face. Injury as a result of chewing or 
biting is not considered an accidental injury, except when the injury is caused by a 
medical condition or domestic violence.
Ambulance Services
Transportation by a vehicle designed, equipped and used only to transport the sick and 
injured is covered:
• from your home, the scene of accident or a medical Emergency to a Hospital;
• between Hospitals;
• between Hospital and Skilled Nursing Facility; and
• from a Hospital or Skilled Nursing Facility to your home.
Air transport requires medical policy / review requirements.
Christian Science
Benefits are payable under this Plan for:
• charges incurred for present and absent treatment for healing purposes made by 
a Christian Science practitioner. At the time such treatment is made, the 
practitioner must be accredited by the Mother Church, The First Church of Christ 
Scientist, in Boston, Massachusetts. Such charges are subject to the same 
terms and conditions as if they had been made by a doctor;
• charges incurred for private nursing care and made by a Christian Science nurse. 
At the time such treatment is rendered, the nurse must be accredited by the 
Mother Church, The First Church of Christ, Scientist, in Boston, Massachusetts. 
Such charges are subject to the same terms and conditions as if they had been 
made by a registered nurse (R.N.); and
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 41 -
• charges incurred for room and board while confined for healing purposes in a 
Christian Science Sanatorium. The sanatorium must be: (a) currently maintained 
by the Mother Church, The First Church of Christ, Scientist, in Boston, 
Massachusetts; or (b) accredited by the Committee on Christian Science Nursing 
Homes of the Mother Church. Such charges are subject to the same terms and 
conditions as if the charges had been incurred in a Hospital.
Diabetes Self-Management Training
Diabetes self-management training is covered for an individual with insulin dependent
diabetes, non-insulin dependent diabetes, or elevated blood glucose levels induced by 
pregnancy or another medical condition when:
• Medically Necessary;
• ordered in writing by a Physician; and
• provided by a Health Care Professional who is licensed, registered, or certified 
under state law.
For the purposes of this provision a "Health Care Professional" means the Physician or 
podiatrist ordering the training or a Provider who has obtained certification in diabetes 
education by the American Diabetes Association.
Diagnostic Services
Coverage for Diagnostic Services includes but is not limited to:
• x-ray and other radiology services;
• laboratory and pathology services;
• cardio graphic, encephalographic, radium and radioisotope tests;
• ultrasound services; and
• allergy tests.
Elective Abortion
Regardless of Medical Necessity, the Plan provides benefits for Covered Services for 
elective abortion.
Emergency Care and Urgent Care
It is important to know the difference between Emergency and Urgent Care situations.
Emergency Care
Medically Necessary Emergency Care services that the Claims Administrator 
determines to meet the definition of an Emergency will be covered, whether the care is 
rendered by an In-Network Provider or Out-of-Network Provider. Emergency Care 
rendered by an Out-of-Network Provider will be covered at the In-Network level. 
Emergency Care is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Follow-up care is not 
considered Emergency Care.
Whenever you are admitted as an Inpatient directly from a Hospital Emergency room
your treatment will be considered an Emergency. For Inpatient admissions following 
Emergency Care, you, your Physician, or the Hospital should contact the Claims 
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 42 -
Administrator within 48 hours of admission or as soon as reasonably possible in order to 
obtain authorization for a specific length of stay. When the Claims Administrator is 
contacted for authorization, you will be notified of the number of days considered 
Medically Necessary for your diagnosis. Thus, you may avoid having to pay charges for 
any excessive Inpatient days that are not Medically Necessary.
Care and treatment once you are stabilized is not Emergency Care. Continuation of 
care from an Out-of-Network Provider beyond that needed to evaluate or stabilize your 
condition in an Emergency will be covered as Out-of-Network unless the Claims 
Administrator authorizes the continuation of care and it is Medically Necessary. The 
applicable Coinsurance will apply for non-Emergency Care.
In order for an Emergency room expense to be approved the medical circumstances 
must meet the definition of Emergency.
If you have questions regarding the Emergency status of a medical condition contact 
the Claims Administrator at the telephone number on the back of your Identification 
Card.
Urgent Care
Often an Urgent rather than an Emergency medical problem exists. Urgent Care 
services can be obtained from any Provider. If you experience an accidental injury or a 
medical problem, the Plan will determine whether your injury or condition requires 
Urgent Care or Emergency Care, based on your diagnosis and symptoms.
Urgent Care is not considered an Emergency. Urgent Care medical problems include, 
but are not limited to, earache, sore throat, and fever (not above 104 degrees). 
Treatment of an Urgent Care medical problem is not an Emergency and does not 
require use of an Emergency room at a Hospital. 
Home Care Services
Home Care Services are performed by a Home Health Care Agency or other Provider in 
your residence. The services must be provided on a part-time visiting basis according to 
a course of treatment. Covered Services may include the following:
• intermittent skilled nursing services (by an R.N. or L.P.N.);
• diagnostic services;
• therapy services (visit limits specified in the Schedule of Benefits do not apply 
when rendered in the home);
• medical/surgical supplies;
• durable medical equipment; and
• Prescription Drugs (only if provided and billed by a Home Health Care Agency).
Home infusion therapy is covered and includes a combination of nursing, durable 
medical equipment, and pharmaceutical services that are delivered and administered 
intravenously in the home. Home Infusion therapy includes services and supplies for 
total parenteral nutrition (TPN), enteral nutrition therapy, antibiotic therapy, pain 
management, and home chemotherapy.
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 43 -
Hospice Care Services
Hospice Care may be provided in the home or Hospice Facility for medical, social and 
psychological services used as palliative treatment for patients with a terminal illness.
Hospice Services include routine home care, continuous home care, Inpatient Hospice 
and Inpatient respite. To be eligible for Hospice benefits, the patient must have a life 
expectancy of six months or less, as certified by the attending Physician.
Covered Services include the following:
• skilled nursing services (by an R.N. or L.P.N.);
• diagnostic services;
• physical, speech and inhalation therapies;
• medical supplies, equipment and appliances;
• counseling services (except bereavement counseling);
• Inpatient confinement at a Hospice; and
• Prescription Drugs obtained from the Hospice.
Human Organ and Tissue Transplant Services
Covered transplant procedures include any of the following Medically Necessary 
"Human Organ and Tissue Transplants (HOTT)" performed in an approved HOTT
Participating Transplant Facility. Utilizing the In Network Blue Distinction Transplant 
Center (BDTC) will provide the maximum benefit, otherwise the coverage level is 50%. 
HOTT benefits are subject to the Plan's Deductible and Out of Pocket. .
Adult procedures include:
• bone marrow or stem cell;
• autologous bone marrow including high dose chemotherapy;
• related allogeneic bone marrow including high dose chemotherapy;
• unrelated allogeneic bone marrow including high dose chemotherapy;
• heart;
• heart/lung;
• lung;
• liver; and
• kidney and 
• pancreas 
Pediatric procedures include:
• bone marrow or stem cell;
• autologous bone marrow including high dose chemotherapy;
• related allogeneic bone marrow including high dose chemotherapy;
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 44 -
• unrelated allogeneic bone marrow including high dose chemotherapy;
• heart; and
• liver.
As additional diagnoses cease to be Experimental/Investigative, the Plan may amend 
the above covered transplant procedure list to include such procedures.
When a Human Organ or Tissue Transplant is considered to be 
Experimental/Investigative, the transplant and all Covered Services performed in 
relation to the transplant are excluded under the Plan. If a covered Human Organ or 
Tissue Transplant is done in conjunction with an Experimental/Investigative transplant 
the Claims Administrator, on behalf of the Plan Administrator, will determine the portion 
of the charges that relate to the covered Human Organ or Tissue Transplant and allow 
only those charges.
Prior Approval
In order to receive benefits for a transplant, you or your Provider must call the Claims 
Administrator for a pre-determination of benefits as soon as you become aware a 
transplant is needed. If benefits are approved through pre-determination, you or your 
Provider must call the Claims Administrator's Transplant Department at 1-800-824-0581 
for Precertification prior to the transplant.
Transplant Plan Year
Transplant benefits start one day prior to the organ transplant surgery or one day prior 
to myeloablation therapy (high dose chemotherapy and/or irradiation). Any services 
performed more than one day prior to the transplant are eligible for benefits under the 
medical portion of the Plan with the exception of services in conjunction with bone 
marrow transplant/stem cell harvesting.
Transplant benefits end the earlier of the following:
• 364 days from the date of the transplant surgery or first myeloablation therapy;
and
• the day before a re-transplant, if within one year (upon re-transplant a new 
transplant plan year starts).
Immunosuppressant drugs administered beyond the transplant benefit period may be 
covered under the medical benefit and are not covered under this transplant benefit.
Transportation, Lodging and Meals
Reasonable Charges for transportation expenses, as determined by the Claims 
Administrator, to and from the site of the covered transplant procedure, including meals 
and lodging while at the site of the covered transplant, are covered for the Member. 
These expenses will also be covered for a companion if the facility is more than 75 
miles from the Member's residence. If the Member is a minor, then reasonable and 
necessary expense for transportation, lodging and meals may be allowed for two 
companions. In order to receive reimbursement for transportation, meals and lodging, 
the Member must submit itemized receipts to the Claims Administrator. Contact the 
Claims Administrator's Transplants Department for detailed information.
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 45 -
Procurement
Procurement is included in the covered transplant procedure. Cord blood is payable if 
the transplant is approved. Harvesting and storage of cord blood bone marrow or stem 
cells for a possible future transplant are not eligible under this transplant benefit.
Transplant Related Expenses
Transplant related expenses mean Medically Necessary items that are required as a 
result of a covered transplant and would not be incurred if the person were not having a 
covered transplant. Services related to the diagnosis causing the need for a covered 
transplant that would have been performed whether or not the patient received a 
covered transplant are not considered a transplant related expense. Transplant related 
expenses during a transplant plan year include only the following:
• acquisition costs (live or cadaver). Acquisition costs include Medically 
Necessary services in connection with the preparation, collection and storage of 
bone marrow, stem cell or solid organ for a covered transplant. For a living 
donor, acquisition costs also include the Medically Necessary Inpatient services 
for the recovery of the donor post-surgery and any complications that arise as a 
direct result of the actual acquisition procedure for a period of six weeks from the 
date of the acquisition or as otherwise determined within the limits determined by 
the Claims Administrator;
• Reasonable Charges for transportation expenses for the patient and one 
companion to and from the site of the covered transplant procedure and lodging 
and meals for the patient and a companion while at the site of the covered 
transplant within limits determined by the Claims Administrator. If the patient is a 
minor, then expenses for transportation, lodging and meals may be allowed for 
two companions;
• Hospital charges and professional fees for the covered transplant procedure; 
• pharmacy charges for immunosuppressant drugs, and other Prescription Drugs 
required for other post-surgical complications, and Prescription Drugs required as 
a result of the patient being immunosuppressed;
• Inpatient services, Outpatient services, or Home Care services for treatment of 
complications of bone marrow or stem cell transplant, or for complications and/or 
rejection of the transplanted organ; and
• Physician fees for medical care following Hospital discharge, which are identified 
as post-transplant.
Inpatient Facility Services
Room, Board, and General Nursing Services
Covered Services for room, board, and general nursing services shall include:
• a room with two or more beds;
• a private room when it is Medically Necessary that you occupy a private room for 
isolation and no isolation facilities are available or if no semi-private room is 
available; or
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 46 -
• a room in a special care unit approved by the Claims Administrator. The unit 
must have facilities, equipment and supportive services for intensive care of 
critically ill patients.
Ancillary Services
Covered Services for ancillary services:
• operating, delivery, and treatment rooms and equipment;
• prescribed drugs dispensed by Hospital during confinement;
• anesthesia, anesthesia supplies and services given by an employee of the 
Hospital or other facility Provider;
• medical and surgical dressings, supplies, casts and splints;
• diagnostic services; and
• therapy services.
Maternity Services
Inpatient Hospital coverage for a mother and her newborn child will be at a minimum, 48 
hours for a vaginal delivery and 96 hours for a caesarian section. Coverage for a stay 
in excess of this requires Precertification by the Claims Administrator. However, the 
mother's attending Physician, after consulting with the mother, may discharge the 
mother or the newborn earlier than the minimum period mentioned above.
At-home post-delivery follow-up care visits are covered when the mother and child are 
discharged from the Hospital before the minimum period described above. Care is 
available for you at your residence, or your Physician's office, by a Physician or nurse 
when performed no later than 72 hours following your and your newborn child's 
discharge from the Hospital. Coverage for these visits includes, but is not limited to:
• assessment of the home support system;
• assistance and training in breast or bottle feeding;
• parent education;
• performance of any maternal or neonatal tests routinely performed during the 
usual course of Inpatient care for the mother or newborn child, including the 
collection of an adequate sample for the hereditary and metabolic newborn 
screening; and
• physical assessments.
Breast pumps & Supplies:
Benefits for breast pumps include the cost of purchasing or renting one manual or 
electronic breast pump per year. Breast pumps are covered with no cost sharing when 
bought at retail stores, pharmacies, or through a durable medical provider. 
Reimbursement includes the cost of the breast pump and taxes. Additional breast 
pump supplies purchased at retail stores are not covered. 
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 47 -
Medical Supplies, Equipment and Appliances
The supplies, equipment and appliances described below are covered under this 
benefit. However, certain approved supplies and equipment are covered under the 
Prescription Drug benefit when they are obtained by mail order or from an In-Network 
pharmacy. If the supplies, equipment and appliances include comfort, luxury, or 
convenience items that are not Medically Necessary, the amount of benefits is the 
Reasonable Charge for the eligible standard item. Any expense that exceeds the 
Reasonable Charge for standard item is your responsibility. The Plan covers:
• medical and surgical supplies including syringes, needles, oxygen, surgical 
dressings, splints and other similar items which serve only a medical purpose. 
Covered Services do not include items usually stocked in the home for general 
use like band-aids, thermometers, and petroleum jelly;
• prosthetic appliances benefits including: the first lenses(s) or glasses following 
cataract surgery; breast prostheses and 2 surgical brassieres each Plan Year
following a mastectomy; and the first wig following cancer treatment;
• prosthetic appliances including the purchase, fitting, needed adjustment, repairs, 
and replacements of prosthetic devices and supplies that: replace all or part of a 
missing body organ and its adjoining tissues; or replace all or part of the function 
of a permanently useless or malfunctioning body organ; and
• durable medical equipment including the rental (or, at the Claims Administrator's 
option, the purchase) of durable medical equipment prescribed by a Physician or 
other Provider. Rental costs must not be more than the purchase price. This 
equipment must serve only a medical purpose and be able to withstand repeated 
use. Repair of medical equipment is covered. Certain types of durable medical 
equipment require precertification. Contact the Claims Administrator for a 
complete list of these items. Non-covered equipment includes items such as air 
conditioners, humidifiers, dehumidifiers, special lighting or other environmental 
modifiers, surgical supports, and corsets or other articles of clothing.
Mental Health/Substance Abuse Services
Inpatient Services, Outpatient Services, and Physician Office Services for the treatment 
of Mental Health Conditions or Substance Abuse are covered for the diagnosis, crisis 
intervention, and short-term treatment of Mental Health Conditions or for detoxification 
and/or rehabilitation of Substance Abuse. Benefits are limited as specified in the 
Schedule of Benefits.
Inpatient Services
Inpatient Services to treat Mental Health Conditions or Substance Abuse include:
• individual psychotherapy;
• group psychotherapy;
• psychological testing;
• family counseling with family members to assist in your diagnosis and treatment; 
and
• convulsive therapy, including electroshock treatment or convulsive drug therapy.
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 48 -
Partial Hospitalization Services
The services covered for Mental Health Conditions/Substance Abuse Inpatient Services
are also covered for partial hospitalizations. A partial hospitalization may be substituted 
for Inpatient benefits at two days for each available Inpatient day.
Outpatient Services
The services covered for Mental Health Conditions/Substance Abuse Inpatient Services 
are also covered for Outpatient (except room, board, and general nursing service).
Residential services for treatment of Mental Health Conditions or Substance Abuse may 
be covered by a $25,000 lifetime maximum benefit for members if those services are 
deemed not “medically necessary” per Anthem’s criteria. 
Outpatient Services
Outpatient Services include facility and professional charges for surgical services, 
diagnostic services, and therapy services when rendered as an Outpatient at a Hospital
or other Provider.
For Emergency Care refer to the EMERGENCY CARE AND URGENT CARE section.
Note: A Member who is receiving benefits for a covered mastectomy or for follow-up 
care in connection with a covered mastectomy and who elects breast reconstruction, 
will also receive coverage for:
• reconstruction of the breast on which the mastectomy has been performed;
• surgery and reconstruction of the other breast to produce a symmetrical 
appearance; and
• prostheses and physical complications of all stages of the mastectomy, including 
lymphedemas.
Preventive Care Services
Under the Plan, expenses for all Covered Services are subject to the Deductible and 
then Coinsurance, with the exception of certain preventive care medical services, which 
are covered at 100%. These preventive care services are covered In-Network only and 
include the following:
• preventive diagnostic testing (including lab tests and x-rays);
• adult physicals;
• child physicals;
• preventive PSA tests;
• colonoscopies (routine and diagnostic); 
• Cholesterol screening;
• preventive pediatric exams;
• preventive hearing evaluations and routine screenings; and 
• injectable medications dispensed in health care Provider’s office (allergy shots 
are excluded from this provision and are subject to Deductible and Coinsurance).
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 49 -
Note: This list is not all inclusive but rather representative of the types of services 
covered under the provision.
Preventive immunizations -- both pediatric and adult -- including flu shots, are covered 
at 100% for both In- and Out-of-Network services. 
Refer to the PRESCRIPTION DRUG PLAN section for specific information about certain 
Preventive Prescription Drugs that are not subject to the Plan’s Deductible. 
Women’s Preventive Health 
Under the Plan, expenses for all Covered Services are subject to the Deductible and 
then Coinsurance. However, the Plan covers expenses for certain preventive care medical services at 100%. This includes the following Women’s Preventive services when 
services are received In-Network. 
• Well-woman preventive care visit annually for adult women to obtain the recommended preventive services that are age and developmentally appropriate, including preconception and prenatal care, including gynecology visits, pap 
smears, and mammograms. Mammograms and pap smears are covered at the 
preventive level regardless of diagnosis.
• Human papillomavirus testing; beginning at age 30 and no more frequently than 
every 3 years
• Screening for gestational diabetes - In pregnant women between 24 and 28 
weeks of gestation and at the first prenatal visit for pregnant women identified to 
be at high risk for diabetes
• Counseling for sexually transmitted infections
• Counseling and screening for human immune-deficiency virus
• Screening and counseling for interpersonal and domestic violence
Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Services
Coverage for Inpatient Services is available for a structured therapeutic program of an 
intensity that requires a multidisciplinary coordinated team approach to upgrade the 
patient's ability to function as independently as possible. This includes skilled 
rehabilitative nursing care, physical therapy, occupational therapy, speech therapy and 
services of a Social Worker and a Psychologist. The goal is to obtain practical 
improvement in a reasonable length of time in the appropriate setting.
Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation involves several types of therapy, not just physical 
therapy, and a coordinated team approach. The variety and intensity of treatments 
required is the major differentiation from an admission primarily for physical therapy.
Professional Services
Physician Office Services
Office visits include but are not limited to medical care and consultations to examine, 
diagnose and treat an illness or injury performed in the Physician's office. Office 
services also include:
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 50 -
• diagnostic services when required to diagnose or monitor a symptom, disease or 
condition; and
• surgery and surgical services including anesthesia and supplies. The surgical 
fee includes normal post-operative care.
Inpatient Physician Services
Inpatient services include the following:
• professional services from a Physician while an Inpatient;
• intensive medical care for constant attendance and treatment when your 
condition requires it for a prolonged time;
• concurrent care for a medical condition by a Physician who is not your surgeon 
while you are in the Hospital for surgery. Care by two or more Physicians during 
one Hospital stay when the nature or severity of your condition requires the skills 
of separate Physicians;
• consultation that is a personal bedside examination by another Physician when 
requested by your Physician. Staff consultations required by Hospital rules are 
excluded;
• surgery and the administration of anesthesia; and
• newborn examinations by a Physician other than the Physician who performed 
the obstetrical delivery.
Sterilization
Regardless of Medical Necessity, you are covered for sterilization. Sterilization 
reversals have a lifetime limit of one per Member. 
Surgical Services
Coverage for Surgical Services when provided as part of Physician office services, 
Inpatient services or Outpatient services is limited to the following:
• performance of generally accepted operative and other invasive procedures;
• the correction of fractures and dislocations;
• anesthesia and surgical assistance when Medically Necessary;
• usual and related pre-operative and post-operative care; and
• other procedures as approved by the Claims Administrator.
The surgical fee includes normal post-operative care.
Therapy Services
Coverage for therapy services when provided as part of Physician office services, 
Inpatient services, Outpatient services, or Home Health Care services is limited to the 
following:
• Physical Medicine Therapies (coverage is provided when the therapy is expected 
to result in a practical improvement in the level of functioning within a reasonable 
period of time):
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 51 -
o physical therapy including treatment by physical means, hydrotherapy, heat, 
or similar modalities, physical agents, bio-mechanical and neuro-physiological 
principles, and devices. Such therapy is given to relieve pain, restore function, and to prevent disability following illness, injury, or loss of a body part;
o speech therapy for the correction of a speech impairment resulting from illness, injury, or surgery; and
o occupational therapy for the treatment of a physically disabled person by 
means of constructive activities designed and adapted to promote the restoration of the person's ability to satisfactorily accomplish the ordinary tasks of 
daily living. It also includes those tasks required by the person's particular occupational role. Occupational therapy does not include diversional, recreational, and vocational therapies (such as hobbies, arts, and crafts).
• Other Therapy Services:
o cardiac rehabilitation to restore an individual's functional status after a cardiac 
event. Home programs, ongoing conditioning and maintenance are not covered. The charges for exercise bicycles are covered up to $500 for those participants who have open heart surgery or post-myocardial infarction. These 
participants must be enrolled in a recognized cardiac rehabilitation program;
o chemotherapy for the treatment of disease by chemical or biological antineoplastic agents;
o dialysis treatments of an acute or chronic kidney ailment that may include the 
supportive use of an artificial kidney machine;
o radiation therapy for the treatment of disease by X-ray, radium, or radioactive 
isotopes; and 
o Inhalation therapy for the treatment of a condition by the administration of 
medicines, water vapors, gases, or anesthetics by inhalation.
See your Schedule of Benefits for benefit limitations.
Network Information
Network of Doctors and Hospitals
There is a network called Blue Access PPO-Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield, which 
includes general practitioners, as well as specialists and Hospitals. If you live and work 
in the state of Wisconsin your network is called Blue Preferred Primary-Anthem Blue 
Cross Blue Shield. If you live and work in Wisconsin and your covered child resides 
outside of Wisconsin, your child will have the Blue Access PPO-Anthem Blue Cross 
Blue Shield.
You get the higher level of benefits when you get care from In-Network Providers. 
Getting a Listing of Providers
The Providers that are In-Network are listed on the Claims Administrator's website (go 
to www.anthem.com, then click on "Providers," then click on Find a Doctor on the next 
page). You can also find out if a Provider is in the network by calling the Claims 
Administrator's Member Advocate Department. The number is located on the back of 
your Identification Card. 
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 52 -
Precertification
Under the Plan certain non-Emergency services require Precertification to be covered 
by the Plan. You must get Precertification from the Claims Administrator for:
• diagnostic services for positron emission tomography (PET) and single photon 
emissions computed tomography (SPECT);
• durable medical equipment/prosthetics: a) wheelchairs (special size, motorized 
or powered and accessories), b) Hospital beds, rocking beds, and airbeds, c) 
electronic or externally powered prosthetics, and d) custom made orthotics and 
braces;
• Home Care Services; including Private Duty Nursing
• Inpatient admissions to Hospitals and other covered facilities; however, 
Precertification is not required for maternity admissions resulting in childbirth that 
are 48 hours for a vaginal delivery and 96 hours for C-section delivery. Newborn 
stays beyond the Mother require precertification.
• plastic/reconstructive surgeries for: a) blepharoplasty, b) rhinoplasty/ceptoplasty, 
c) hairplasty, d) panniculectomy and lipectomy/diatasis recti repair, e) pectus 
excavatum repair, f) insertion/injection of prosthetic material collagen implants, g) 
chin implant/mentoplasty/osteoplasty mandible, and, h) lip/cleft, lip/palate repair; 
and
• uvulopalatopharyngoplasty (UPPP) surgery;
• Bariatric Procedures;
• Elective Admissions;
• Long Term Acute Care Facility, Rehabilitation Facility and Skilled Nursing Facility
admissions.
• Inpatient Behavioral Health and Substance Abuse treatment, Intensive 
Outpatient Therapy, or Partial Hospitalization
• Electric Convulsive Therapy
The Precertification administrator is a professional team of nurses and board-certified 
doctors that, when appropriate, provides you with information about your treatment 
options. You and your Physician make the final decision, but the Plan does not cover 
services that are not Pre-certified.
Second Surgical Opinions
You do not need a second surgical opinion for In- or Out-of-Network surgery, but a 
second opinion is a Covered Expense and may help you determine whether surgery is 
really necessary. 
Health Care Management
Health Care Management is included in your health care benefits to encourage you to 
seek quality medical care in the most cost-effective and appropriate manner.
Health Care Management is a process designed to promote the delivery of costeffective medical care to all Members by assuring the use of appropriate procedures, 
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 53 -
setting (place of service), and resources using Precertification, Concurrent Review, and 
Case Management.
Concurrent Review
Concurrent Review is a process in which nurses monitor your progress during an 
Inpatient admission. As a result of Concurrent Review, additional days of Inpatient care 
may be approved that exceed the number originally authorized by the Claims 
Administrator's Health Care Management staff. With prior notice by the Claims 
Administrator, the number of days originally authorized through Precertification may be 
reduced when it is determined that continued Inpatient care is no longer Medically 
Necessary. 
Case Management (Includes Discharge Planning)
Case Management is a feature designed to assure that your care is provided in the 
most appropriate and cost effective care setting. The Case Management process can 
include:
• an assessment of the Member's condition; and
• available resources and treatment options.
This feature allows the Claims Administrator to customize your benefits by approving 
otherwise non-Covered Services or arranging an earlier discharge from an Inpatient 
setting for a patient whose care could be safely rendered in an alternate setting. That 
alternate care setting or customized service will be covered only when arranged and 
approved in advance by the Claims Administrator's Health Care Management staff. In 
managing your care, the Claims Administrator has the right to authorize substitution of 
Outpatient Services or services in your home to the extent that benefits are still 
available for Inpatient Services.
Care Management Tools and Resources 
As a participant in this Plan, you and your family have access to care management 
resources. 
• Nurse Line: The Nurse Line gives you a direct, toll-free connection to a 
registered nurse anytime of day or night at 1-866-691-8432.
• Care Management: If you or a Dependent live with a chronic disease or health 
condition, the Plan offers confidential services designed to help improve both 
your health and your quality of life. If you or a covered Dependent qualify to 
participate in a care management program, a program representative will call and 
invite you to join. Examples of care management programs include help with 
managing one of the following conditions: 
o asthma;
o atrial fibrillation;
o COPD (emphysema or chronic bronchitis);
o diabetes;
o heart disease;
o heart failure;
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 54 -
o high blood pressure;
o high cholesterol;
o low back pain; and
o stroke.
• Maternity Management: As an added benefit under the Plan, you or your 
covered Dependent may enroll in the Maternity Management Program. This 
program is designed to help identify potential risk factors, as well as promote a 
healthy pregnancy and delivery. Maternity Management also provides you with 
relevant information and education materials.
• Case Management: If you have a catastrophic health event, Case Management 
can assign a specially trained nurse advocate (backed by a team of board- certified Physicians) to help you navigate the healthcare system and help you 
coordinate your care as you progress from one caregiver to another. 
Your health information that is used in the Plan and in these Care Management Tools is 
confidential and protected by federal law. See the PRIVACY OF PROTECTED HEALTH 
INFORMATION section for more information.
Restrictions and Exclusions
Expenses not covered
The Plan does not cover the following:
• Charges for completion of claim forms or charges for medical records or reports 
unless otherwise required by law.
• Charges for court ordered services.
• Charges for Custodial Care, domiciliary or convalescent care.
• Hearing aids/assistance needed for normal aging/noise exposure is not covered.
• Charges for maintenance services which are activities performed to preserve the 
level of function or prevent regression of function for an illness, injury or condition 
which is resolved or stable.
• Charges for mileage costs or other travel expenses (except as authorized by the 
Claims Administrator), transportation (except for transportation by ambulance 
services to a Hospital if Medically Necessary, including any transfers required by 
the medical condition, but not for the convenience, of the Member).
• Charges for missed or cancelled appointments.
• Charges for personal hygiene and convenience items (e.g., television, private 
rooms, housekeeping services, guest meals and accommodations, telephone 
charges, etc.), except as specified elsewhere in this Plan.
• Charges for which you have no legal obligation to pay.
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 55 -
• Charges in excess of the Reasonable Charge as determined by the Claims 
Administrator.
• Charges incurred after the termination date of coverage under the Plan except as 
specified elsewhere in this Plan.
• Charges incurred prior to your Effective Date.
• Cosmetic services, cosmetic drug therapy or reconstructive procedures, and any 
related services or supplies which alter appearance but are not Medically 
Necessary to restore or improve impaired physical function. Notwithstanding the 
foregoing, this exclusion does not apply when Covered Services are performed
for: (a) repair of a defect resulting from an accident; (b) reconstructive surgery 
necessary for the prompt treatment of a diseased condition, or previous 
therapeutic process if recommended and performed by a licensed Physician; (c) 
reconstructive breast surgery on which a mastectomy has been or will be 
performed or surgery, reconstruction of the other breast to produce a 
symmetrical appearance in connection with a mastectomy, or prostheses and 
surgeries or procedures related to physical complications at all stages of the 
mastectomy (including lymphedemas); and (d) reconstructive surgery necessary 
as a result of conditions initially caused by a previous elective procedure, or 
treatment of a birth defect in a child that is otherwise covered under the Plan.
• Dental work, treatment or dental x-rays. This exclusion does not include: (a) oral 
dental surgery, performed while the Member is an Inpatient and whose 
admission to a Hospital facility is ordered by a Physician because the life or 
health of the Member will be placed in danger if such surgery is done while the 
Member is not an Inpatient (in such a case oral dental surgery is limited to 
charges for cutting procedures for diseases or the extraction of impacted teeth; 
and (b) such treatment that is necessitated by an accidental injury to sound 
natural teeth or to the jaw that is otherwise covered under the Plan.
• Food supplements.
• Physical exams required for enrollment in any insurance program, as a condition
of employment for licensing, or for other reasons, except as specified in the 
Schedule of Benefits. 
• Research studies or screening examinations, except as specified elsewhere in 
this Plan.
• Services related to vocational rehab, adult day programs, school related 
assistance or custodial care.
• Stand-by charges of a Physician.
• Items or equipment which are non-medical (not primarily and customarily used to 
service a medical purpose in the absence of illness or injury) such as exercise 
bicycles, treadmill equipment, physical fitness and athletic training equipment, air 
conditioners, humidifiers, hot tubs, saunas, whirlpools, physical exercise 
equipment, or electronic air filters, even though recommended by a physician.
• Medical services or supplies received as a result of any act of war (whether
declared or not), riot, insurrection, civil disobedience, nuclear explosion, or 
nuclear accident.
• Orthoptic training.
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 56 -
• Services and supplies in a Veterans' Administration Hospital for a Member with a 
military service connected disability, except where required by law.
• Services and supplies that are not Medically Necessary, even if ordered by a 
Physician.
• Services and supplies which are Experimental/Investigative or related to such, 
whether incurred prior to, in connection with, or subsequent to the 
Experimental/Investigative service or supply, as determined by the Claims 
Administrator.
• Services and supplies which are not accepted in healthcare practice as needed 
in the diagnosis or treatment of the patient.
• Services and supplies which are not ordered by a Physician.
• Services for any condition, disease, defect, ailment, or accidental injury arising 
out of and in the course of employment if benefits are available under any 
Workers' Compensation or Occupational Disease Act or other similar law. This 
exclusion applies if you receive the benefits in whole or in part; whether or not 
you claim the benefits or compensation and whether or not you recover from any 
third party.
• Services or supplies for which a Member would not legally have to pay if there 
were no coverage.
• Services received from a dental or medical department maintained by mutual 
benefit association, labor union, trust or similar person or group.
• Services prescribed, ordered, or referred by, or received from a member of your 
immediate family (including parent, child, Spouse, sister, or brother).
• Services which are not specified in the Plan as Covered Services even if 
Medically Necessary or prescribed by a Physician.
• Orthopedic shoes.
• Surgical procedures performed for the purpose of correcting myopia 
(nearsightedness), hyperopia (farsightedness), astigmatism, and expenses 
related to such procedures.
• Vitamins unless deemed to be Medically Necessary.
• Charges for maternity services related to a Member's service as a surrogate 
mother.
• Charges for physical, psychiatric or psychological examinations, testing or 
treatment not otherwise specifically listed in the Plan as covered benefits, for 
purposes: (a) of obtaining or maintaining employment or insurance; (b) 
compliance with judicial or administrative proceedings or orders; (c) which are 
conducted for purposes of medical research; (d) to obtain or maintain a license or 
certification of any type; (e) relating to travel; (f) relating to marriage or adoption; 
(g) required physical examinations related to sports participation beyond grade 
12; (h) Physician certification for Medicaid or Medicare services; or (i) functional 
capacity testing. This exclusion does not apply to immunizations for travel.
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 57 -
• Radial keratotomy, or keratomileusis or excimer laser photo refractive 
keratectomy, laser surgery, and other types of eye procedures to correct 
refractive errors.
• Services or supplies related to alternative or complementary medicine. Services 
in this category include, but are not limited to, acupuncture except when render 
by a Physician, holistic medicine, homeopathy, hypnosis, aroma therapy, 
massage therapy, reike therapy, herbal, vitamin or dietary products or therapies, 
naturopathy, thermograph, orthomolecular therapy, contact reflex analysis, 
bioenergial synchronization technique (BEST) and iridology-study of the iris.
• Genetic counseling, screening or treatment that is not Medically Necessary.
• Medical fast diets, weight loss programs and educational dietary counseling
related to weight-loss efforts.
• All non-prescription, patent or proprietary medicine or medication not requiring a 
prescription (other than insulin and specific medications as listed in the 
PRESCRIPTION DRUG PLAN, or prescription drugs which may be properly received 
without charge under local, state or federal programs, including workers’ 
compensation or any duplicate insurance program.
• Vocational rehabilitation.
• Health care services and related expenses for treatment of injuries incurred while 
in the commission of a felony, regardless of whether the Member is convicted or 
pleads to a lesser offense, if the Claims Administrator determines by a 
preponderance of the evidence that a felony was committed.
• Services and supplies related to any mechanical equipment, device, or organ. 
However, this exclusion does not apply to a left ventricular assist device when 
used as a bridge to a heart transplant.
• Any and all therapeutic devices, appliances, or treatment(s) prescribed or 
administered to treat any aspect of sexual dysfunction or enhancement, except 
as provided in the Prescription Drug Plan.
• Special diets at home including but not limited to nutritional products for inborn 
errors of metabolism (i.e., PKU and carnitine deficiency), supplemental feedings, 
(i.e. Slimfast, Ensure, Sustacal) and maintenance enteral products, supplies and 
equipment.
• Charges related to donating and storage of blood or blood products.
• Prophylactic mastectomy and any subsequent reconstruction is not a covered 
benefit in members without a documented diagnosis of breast cancer and 
associated high risk factors.
• Any New FDA Approved Drug Product or Technology (including but not limited to 
medications, medical supplies, or devices) available in the marketplace for 
dispensing by the appropriate source for the product or technology, including but 
not limited to pharmacies, for the first six months after the product or technology 
received FDA New Drug Approval or other applicable FDA approval. The Plan 
may at its sole discretion, waive this exclusion in whole or in part for a specific 
New FDA Approved Drug Product or Technology.
• Marital counseling.
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 58 -
• Eyeglasses, contact lenses, or other vision materials. This exclusion does not 
apply for initial prosthetic lenses or sclera shells following intraocular surgery, or 
for soft contact lenses due to a medical condition.
• Expenses incurred at a health spa or similar facility.
• Self-help training and other forms of non-medical self care, except as otherwise 
provided herein.
• Private duty nursing services rendered in a Hospital or Skilled Nursing Facility.
• Private duty nursing services except when provided through the Home Care 
Services benefit.
• Services, to the extent that they are provided as benefits by any governmental 
unit, unless otherwise required by law or regulation.
• Care received in an emergency room which is not Emergency Care, except as 
specified in this booklet.
Pre-Existing Condition Limitation
There are no exclusions or limitations for Pre-Existing Conditions.
Prescription Drug Plan
If you are enrolled in this Plan, the Prescription Drug benefit is available to help you and 
your covered Dependents pay for medication. 
Under the Plan, prescriptions are treated like any other Covered Expense. The 
prescription program is not separate from the medical program like it is under other 
plans the Company offers. Medications fall into two categories – preventive and nonpreventive medications.
Preventive Prescription Drugs
If a drug is on the Plan’s preventive drug list, it allows you to bypass the plan 
Deductible. You pay only Coinsurance at retail or Copays for Mail Order Service for 
Preventive Prescription Drugs until you reach your In-Network Out-of-Pocket Maximum. Once the annual In-Network Out-of-Pocket Maximum is reached, these Preventive 
Prescription Drugs are then covered at 100% for the remainder of the Plan Year. The 
preventive drug categories are:
• asthma medications;
• anti-clotting medication;
• pre-natal supplements and folic acid;
• vitamin D;
• osteoporosis drugs;
• lipid/cholesterol lowering medications;
• diabetes medication and supplies;
• blood pressure medication;
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 59 -
• vaccines;
• anti-malaria medication; 
• medication to prevent breast cancer (anti-estrogrens);
• hemophilia factor; and
• estrogen hormone replacement therapy.
Contraceptives
Prescription contraceptives will be covered at 100% with no cost sharing for women. 
Over the counter contraceptives will not be covered. 
A complete list of covered Preventive Prescription Drugs can be found at 
www.healthspan.cummins.com or contact the CBS Benefits Contact Center for the list. 
Refer to the CONTACTS section of this Plan for contact information for the CBS Benefits 
Contact Center.
Non-Preventive Prescription Drugs
All other medications are considered Non-Preventive Prescription Drugs. You pay the 
full cost of all Non-Preventive Prescription Drugs until you reach the Plan’s In-Network
Deductible. When you reach the Plan's In-Network Deductible, you will pay 
Coinsurance at retail or Copays for Mail Order Service until you reach your In-Network 
Out-of-Pocket Maximum. Once the annual In-Network Out-of-Pocket Maximum is 
reached, these Non-Preventive Prescription Drugs are then covered at 100% for the 
remainder of the Plan Year. 
Paying for Your Prescription Drugs
Your cost and the Plan’s cost for Prescription Drugs is based on:
• the type of medication (Generic, preferred brand or non-preferred Brand Name 
Drug);
• where you fill your prescription; and
• the amount (or "supply") you order.
Prescription Drug Schedule of Benefits
The following summary lists your responsibility for Prescription Drugs under the 
Prescription Drug program after you satisfy the Plan’s annual deductible. 
Type Retail Pharmacy
(up to 34-day supply) In- or Out-of-Network*
CVS or Walgreen Retail or 
Mail Order Program
(up to 90-day supply) 
In-Network only
 Generic You pay $8 Copay You pay $20 Copay
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 60 -
 Brand-Name Formulary 
Drug
You pay 20% Coinsurance 
($30 minimum, $150 maximum)
You pay $75 Copay
 Brand-Name Non Formulary Drug
You pay 50% Coinsurance 
($65 minimum, $180 maximum) 
You pay $180 Copay
* For retail pharmacy expenses, the Plan pays percentage based on the Claims 
Administrator's discounted fee schedule after you satisfy the In-Network annual 
Deductible
Your Plan uses a Formulary that is comprised of drugs in multiple classes (Generic, 
Preferred Brands, and non-Preferred Brands for both Specialty and non-Specialty 
medications) and in order to be covered the drugs must be specifically listed on one of 
the various tiers.
Through the Claims Administrator you can fill your prescription mainly in two ways: 
from a participating retail pharmacy or through the mail order program. You may also 
refill your prescriptions at the retail pharmacy or through the mail order program by 
using a mail-in form or the Claims Administrator's web site. On the site you will click on 
"mail service pharmacy" and be asked to provide your login and pass code.
Retail Pharmacy Program
The retail pharmacy program is typically used when you need a prescription on a short- term basis, such as an antibiotic to treat strep throat or a child's ear infection. In most 
cases, up to a 34-day supply for each prescription/refill is available through an in- network retail pharmacy.
• There are nearly 60,000 participating Pharmacies throughout the U.S. An in- network pharmacy list is sent to you when you first enroll in the Plan. If you need 
a list, call the Claims Administrator at (866) 544-6968. You can also go to the 
Claims Administrator’s Web site. You are encouraged to ask the pharmacist if 
they participate in the Claims Administrator's network.
• You must present your Medical/Prescription Drug Identification Card to the 
pharmacist who will tell you the amount (Deductible, if applicable, or 
Coinsurance) you are required to pay. If the annual Deductible has been met, 
the Plan pays the remainder of the charge for the drug after you pay your 
Coinsurance. You do not have to file a claim form for prescriptions filled at an in- network pharmacy.
• If you purchase a Prescription Drug from an Out-of-Network pharmacy, you will 
be required to pay for the prescription at the time of your purchase. You may file 
a paper claim within 365 days to the Claims Administrator for review. In order to 
process the claim, the Claims Administrator will need the receipt and the National 
Drug Code (NDC) number for the prescription. The pharmacist can provide you 
with this information. You can call the Claims Administrator Customer Service 
Center number on the back of your Prescription Drug Identification Card, or call 
the CBS Benefits Contact Center at (877) 377-4357, to request a paper claim 
form.
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 61 -
90-day Supply Retail via CVS and Walgreens
You can save money on your long-term or maintenance medications by filling at CVS or 
Walgreens. You pay a lower Copay for a 90-day supply through CVS or Walgreens 
than for three separate 34-day fills at a retail pharmacy (see the PRESCRIPTION DRUG 
SCHEDULE OF BENEFITS section). 
90-day via Mail Order Program
You can also save money on your long-term or maintenance medications by filling 
through the Mail Order program. Mail Order is delivered within 10 to 14 days and there 
are no shipping costs. You will receive a mail order form with your new Prescription 
Drug Identification Card. Contact the toll-free customer service number on the back of 
your Medical/Prescription Drug Identification Card to learn how to get started using the 
Mail Order Service. Mail order drugs can also be ordered by calling the number on your 
Medical/Prescription Drug Identification Card or visiting the Claims Administrator's Web 
site.
To use your Mail Order Service, you will need to:
• obtain an original prescription from your doctor, written for up to a 90 day supply 
of medication with appropriate number of refills (up to one year);
• complete the Claims Administrator's order form and Health, Allergy & Medication 
Questionnaire (the Health, Allergy & Medication Questionnaire was included with 
your Prescription Drug Welcome Kit, or you can order one from customer 
service); and
• send your completed Health, Allergy & Medication Questionnaire, order form and 
original prescription and payment (check or credit card) to the Claims 
Administrator at the address on the order form. 
Mail Order Reminder
Any time you begin a new maintenance Prescription Drug, have your doctor complete 
two prescriptions – one to be filled immediately at an in-network retail pharmacy for up 
to a 34-day supply and the other to be submitted to the Claims Administrator for up to a 
90-day supply.
Specialty Pharmacy Program
The specialty pharmacy program is for Members who use specialty medication to treat a 
chronic illness, such as multiple sclerosis or rheumatoid arthritis. All maintenance 
specialty prescriptions is filled at Accredo with no retail courtesy prescriptions. This 
summary lists your responsibility for covered Prescription Drugs under the specialty 
pharmacy program. 
Expenses for specialty medication are subject to the Plan’s In-Network Deductible, except for expenses for Preventive Prescription Drugs. This means that you pay the 
full cost of the medication until the Deductible is satisfied. If your expenses exceed 
the Deductible then the Plan pays benefis and you pay a Copay based on the type of 
specialty medication you purchase, up to the Plan’s In-Network Out-of-Pocket 
Maximum. Once you reach the Plan’s In-Network Out-of-Pocket Maximum, the Plan 
pays 100% of Covered Expenses for the remainder of the Plan Year. Manufacturerfunded patient assistance for widely distributed specialty drugs will not be considered as 
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 62 -
true out-of-pocket for members and may not apply to deductible and out-of-pocket 
maximums
Specialty Pharmacy Schedule of Benefits
The following summary lists your responsibility for Specialty Pharmacy Drugs under the 
Prescription Drug program after you satisfy the Plan’s annual deductible. 
Plan Feature In-Network Coverage Out-of-Network Coverage
Specialty Drugs
(30-day supply)
You pay $60 None
Online Access to the Claims Administrator
Visit the Claims Administrator’s Web site 24 hours a day, 365 days a year for the 
following services and information:
• copayments;
• mail order prescription;
• list of in-network Pharmacies;
• look up whether a particular drug is a Generic or preferred Brand Name Drug;
• look up whether Precertification is required (see the PRIOR AUTHORIZATION
section); and
• information on specific drugs and health care conditions
Covered Drugs and Plan Limitations
The Prescription Drug program pays benefits for most FDA-approved medications when 
you have a valid prescription. Some drugs also require Precertification from the Claims 
Administrator. For information on whether a specific Prescription Drug is covered by the 
Plan, call the Claims Administrator customer service number (see the CONTACTS
section).
Generic, Preferred Brand and Non-Preferred Brand Name Drugs
A Generic Drug is the chemical name of a particular medicine. A Brand Name Drug is 
the trade name by which it is advertised and sold. Generic Drugs are sold under 
generic, often unfamiliar, names, yet they have the same active ingredients and are 
subject to the same rigid FDA standards for quality, strength, and purity as their brand 
name counterparts. 
In general, Generic Drugs cost less than Brand Name Drugs, and preferred Brand 
Name Drugs cost less than non-preferred Brand Name Drugs. To reduce the cost both 
to you and to the Company, you should ask your doctor to prescribe Generic Drugs or 
preferred Brand Name Drugs, whenever possible. 
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 63 -
Important Note: Additional criteria may apply to determine whether specific drugs are 
covered and in what amount or dosage. Please call the Claims Administrator if you 
have questions about coverage, quantity/dosage limitations or if Precertification is 
required for a specific drug. 
Drugs Not Covered
These products are not covered by the Pharmacy Program: 
• any over-the-counter (OTC) medication or OTC equivalent products;
• drugs not approved by the FDA regardless of whether they are prescribed by a 
physician;
• compounded medications
• Mifeprex
• Blood or blood plasma products
• Blood glucose monitors
• Contraceptive devices
• prescription multiple vitamins (including vitamins with fluoride);
• injectable vitamins;
• hair growth and hair removing products (Rogaine, Propecia, Vaniqa);
• anti-wrinkle products (Renova);
• nutritional supplements; and
• ostomy supplies
Certain items, such as blood glucose monitors, contraceptive devices, and ostomy 
supplies, may be covered by the medical plan, rather than the pharmacy program. 
Coverage can be verified by contacting Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield.
You should also check the RESTRICTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS section because those 
restrictions and exclusions also apply to the Prescription Drug program under the Plan.
Drugs Requiring Precertification
These products are covered by the Plan if you meet the coverage criteria and 
Precertification is obtained:
• ADHD Therapy – Stimulants and Amphetamines;
• Anti-convulsant Lyrica;
• Infertility treatment;
• Growth Hormones; 
• Pain Management Therapy including Oxycontin, Lidoderm, Stadol NS, Actiq, 
Fentora, Opana ER; and
• all Specialty classified drugs.
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 64 -
Exceptions
The following drugs are covered, with limitations: 
• smoking cessation products requiring a prescription (up to a 180 day supply per 
year)
• Erectile Dysfunction Therapy (Maximum Quantity of 6 for a 34 day supply or 18 
for a 90 day supply);
• Migraine Therapy (contact Claims Administrator for drug-specific limitations);
• Retin-A and other similarly classified topical acne drugs covered up to age 21; 
review all usage cases over the age of 21 with clinical PA for medical necessity; 
and
• Injectable medications (contact the Claims Administrator for more information).
Quantity Limits
The Company has adopted the Claims Administrator's standard quantity level limit for all 
other medications
Out of Pocket Protection Program 
The Out of Pocket Protection Program minimizes the impact of copayment assistance 
on plan design, while ensuring members have access to the medications they need. 
This program adjusts copayment assistance from members’ accumulated deductible 
and out-of-pocket maximum to reflect only what members themselves pay. Funds paid 
by copay assistance programs will not be applied to the year-to-date accumulators.
Vision 
Schedule of Benefits
The plan provides coverage for a comprehensive eye exam for each member every 12 
months. If you choose to have your exam conducted by an in-network provider, the 
service will be covered in full with no out of pocket costs at the time of your service. If 
you chose to have your exam conducted by an out-of-network provider, the plan will 
reimburse you up to the amount shown in the out-of-network column below. 
This schedule of benefits lists the maximum amount the Plan will pay for specific 
services, called an allowance. The difference between the allowance and the actual 
charge is your responsibility. The allowance is not subject to the Plan Deductible. 
The Plan does not cover eyeglasses, contact lenses, or other vision materials, but 
discounts are available if utilizing an in-network provider. 
Covered Benefit Frequency In-Network Out-of-Network
Comprehensive Eye 
Exam
(including dilation if 
needed)
Once every 12 
months Covered in Full Reimbursable up to
$100
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 65 -
Eye Examination
An eye examination includes:
• a complete case history;
• external examination of the eye and ednexa;
• opthalmoscopic examination;
• binocular balance testing;
• tonometry test for glaucoma, when indicated;
• gross visual fields, when indicated;
• color vision testing, when indicated;
• summary finding; and
• recommendations or prescribing corrective lenses.
Filing a Claim
How to File a Claim
You do not have to submit a claim form for services provided In-Network. Payment will 
be sent directly to your Provider. If you go to an Out-of-Network Provider, you need to 
submit a claim form to the Claims Administrator. Be sure to file a separate claim for 
each member of your family. Make copies of all itemized bills. 
You can get a claim form from the CBS Benefits Contact Center Center or the My 
Wellbeing site at www.mywellbeing@cummins.com. See the CONTACTS section.
Deadline for Filing Claims
Generally, you should file claims within 90 days of the date of service. However, there 
is a claim filing deadline that you need to note. You must file your claim by the end of 
the calendar year after the calendar year in which the service was rendered. If you do 
not submit the claim by the end of the calendar year after the calendar year in which the 
service was rendered, benefits for that health service will be denied. 
Claim Recap (formerly “Explanation of Benefits”)
You will receive a detailed statement called a claim recap. The claim recap will explain 
what amounts have been paid and what amounts have not been paid. The statement 
will explain the reason why a claim has not been paid. 
If A Claim Is Denied
Review of claims
The Plan will review your claim or your Dependent’s claim for benefits in accordance 
with the following procedures. If you believe that you are entitled to a benefit that has 
not been provided or to a greater or different benefit than has been provided, or you 
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 66 -
disagree with any other action taken by the Claims Administrator, the Plan also provides 
appeals procedures.
During the review and appeal procedures, the Claims Administrator or its designee shall 
have the right and opportunity to have a Physician, who is chosen by the Claims 
Administrator or its designee, examine any Member whose injury or sickness is the 
basis of the claim. The Claims Administrator or its designee shall also have the right 
and opportunity to have a second Physician, who is chosen by the Claims Administrator 
or its designee, examine any Member with regard to any injury or sickness which is the 
basis of a claim. If the opinion of the second Physician differs from the opinion of the 
first Physician, the Claims Administrator or its designee may follow the opinion of the 
second Physician. The costs of any physical examination required under this provision 
shall be paid by the Plan or the Company. Further, the Claims Administrator or its 
designee shall have the right to orally question the Physician, health care provider, or 
other professional person whose services are covered by the Plan and whose course of 
treatment is the basis of the claim. These rights shall be exercisable by the Claims 
Administrator or its designee as often as is reasonably necessary during the review and 
appeal process.
Pre-Service Claims
A "pre-service claim" is any claim for a benefit under the Plan for which the Plan 
requires you to obtain approval of the benefit before receiving medical care. In other
words, if the Plan requires Precertification (see the PRECERTIFICATION section) then the 
claim is a pre-service claim. If you file a claim for pre-service approval with the Claims 
Administrator, and you do not properly identify yourself, specify the medical condition or 
symptom, and the specific treatment, service, or product for which approval is 
requested, the Claims Administrator will notify you of your failure and the proper 
procedures to be followed in filing a claim, within 5 days. The notification may be oral, 
unless you request a notice in writing. 
Upon filing a pre-service claim, the Claims Administrator will notify you of its decision 
within 15 days of receipt of your claim. This 15-day period may be extended for an 
additional 15 days if the Claims Administrator (a) determines that an extension is 
necessary due to matters beyond the Plan's control, and (b) notifies you of the 
circumstances requiring the extension of time and the date by which the Claims 
Administrator expects to render a decision.
If an extension is necessary because you have not submitted all the information 
necessary to decide your claim, the notice of extension will specifically describe the 
additional information required, and you will have at least 45 days to provide the 
requested information. If you deliver the information within the time specified, the 15 
day extension period will begin after you provide the information. Any notice you 
receive regarding an adverse decision on your claim will include the information 
described in the paragraph below entitled NOTICE OF ADVERSE DECISIONS.
Concurrent Care Decisions
If the Plan has approved an ongoing course of treatment to be provided over a period of 
time or for a certain number of treatments, the following will apply:
• If the Plan reduces or terminates the course of treatment (other than by Plan 
amendment or termination) before the end of the period of time or number of 
treatments, you will be notified sufficiently in advance of the reduction or 
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 67 -
termination to allow you to appeal and obtain a determination on review of the 
Plan's decision before it becomes effective.
• In a case involving a claim for urgent care, you may request the Plan to extend 
the course of treatment beyond the already approved time or number of 
treatments. The Claims Administrator will notify you of its decision within 24 
hours of its receipt of your request, provided that you make your request at least 
24 hours prior to the expiration of the prescribed period of time or number of 
treatments. If the Claims Administrator denies your claim, you will receive 
notification of the denial.
Post-Service Claims
If you file a claim for a benefit that relates to a service that has already been provided,
the Claims Administrator will notify you whether your claim is approved or denied within 
30 days after receipt of the claim. The Claims Administrator may extend this period by 
up to 15 days if it (a) determines that the extension is necessary due to matters outside 
of the Plan's control, and (b) the Claims Administrator notifies you of the circumstances 
requiring the extension and the date by which the Claims Administrator expects to 
render a decision. If such an extension is necessary because you did not submit all the 
information necessary to decide the claim, the notice of extension will specifically 
describe the additional information required. You will have at least 45 days to provide 
the requested information. If you deliver the information within the time specified, the 15 
day extension period for the Claims Administrator to decide your claim will begin after 
you provide the information. Any notice you receive regarding an adverse decision on 
your claim will include the information described in the paragraph below entitled NOTICE 
OF ADVERSE DECISIONS.
Urgent Care
A claim is an "urgent care claim" if processing the claim within the Plan's normal time 
frames: (a) could seriously jeopardize your life, health, or ability to regain maximum 
function; or (b) in the opinion of a Physician with knowledge of your medical condition, 
would subject you to severe pain that cannot be adequately managed without the care 
or treatment requested in your claim.
The following procedures will apply to any urgent care claim:
• The Claims Administrator will notify you of its determination as soon as possible, 
taking into account the medical circumstances, but no later than 72 hours after it 
receives your claim.
• If you file a claim for urgent care with the Claims Administrator, and you do not 
properly identify yourself, specify the medical condition or symptom, and the 
specific treatment, service, or product for which approval is requested, the 
Claims Administrator will notify you of your failure and the proper procedures to 
be followed in filing a claim, within 24 hours. The notification may be oral, unless 
you request a notice in writing. You will have at least 48 hours in which to 
provide the additional information. The Claims Administrator will notify you of its 
decision within 48 hours after it receives the additional information, or, if you do 
not provide the requested information, 48 hours after the end of the period of 
time that you were given to provide the information.
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 68 -
• If the Claims Administrator denies your claim, you will receive written notification 
of the denial. Any notice you receive regarding an adverse decision on your claim 
will include the information described in the paragraph below entitled NOTICE OF 
ADVERSE DECISIONS.
Notice of Adverse Decisions
If your claim for benefits is wholly or partially denied, the Claims Administrator will notify 
you, in writing, and the notice will include the following:
• the specific reason or reasons for denial of the claim;
• reference to specific Plan provisions on which the denial is based;
• a description of any internal rule, guideline, protocol or similar criterion relied on 
in making the adverse determination (or a statement that the information will be 
provided free of charge upon request);
• if the denial is based on a Medical Necessity or Experimental/Investigational 
treatment or similar exclusion or limit, an explanation of any scientific or clinical 
judgment on which the denial is based (or a statement that the explanation will 
be provided free of charge upon request);
• a description of any additional material or information that you may need to 
provide with respect to the claim, with an explanation as to why the material or 
information is necessary; and
• an explanation of your right to appeal the claim denial under the Plan's review 
procedures, including expedited review of claims involving urgent care, and your 
right to bring a civil action in federal court following any further denial of your 
claim on review.
In the case of a claim involving urgent care, the Claims Administrator may provide the 
above information by telephone, facsimile or similar method, and if provided to you 
orally, a written or electronic notification will be furnished to you within 3 days after the 
oral notification. Notice must be provided even if the claims is approved.
Benefits Complaint and Appeals Procedure
The Plan wants your experience to be as positive as possible. There may be times, 
however, when you have a complaint, problem, or question about your Plan or a service 
you have received. In those cases, please contact Member Services by calling the number on the back of your Identification Card. You should note that there are different 
Claims Administrators for Medical and Prescription Drug claims. Their individual contact 
information can be found at the end of this document in the CONTACTS section. The 
Claims Administrator will try to resolve your complaint informally by talking to your Provider or reviewing your claim. If you are not satisfied with the resolution of your complaint, you have the right to file an appeal, which is defined as follows:
For purposes of these appeal provisions, “claims for benefits” means a request for benefits under the plan. The term includes both pre-service and post-service claims.
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 69 -
• A pre-service claim is a claim for benefits under the plan for which you have not 
received the benefit or for which you may need to obtain approval in advance.
• A post-service claim is any other claim for benefits under the plan for which you 
have received the service.
If your claim is denied or if your coverage is rescinded*:
• You will be provided with a written notice of the denial or rescission; and 
• You are entitled to a full and fair review of the denial or rescission.
The procedure the Claims Administrator will follow will satisfy the requirements for a full 
and fair review under applicable Federal regulations.
*A rescission of coverage is a cancellation or discontinuance of coverage that has retroactive effect. Coverage may be rescinded only if you commit fraud or make an intentional misrepresentation of material fact. For example, if an Employee knowingly enrolls 
a person as a Spouse when the Employee had not married the person (perhaps by submitting a fraudulent marriage license), coverage may be rescinded. You will be provided 
at least 30 days’ advance written notice if you would be affected before coverage may 
be rescinded.
Notice of Adverse Benefit Determination
If your claim is denied, the Claims Administrator’s notice of adverse benefit determination (denial) will include:
• information sufficient to identify the claim involved; 
• the specific reason(s) for the denial;
• a reference to the specific plan provision(s) on which the Claims Administrator’s 
determination is based; 
• a description of any additional material or information needed to perfect your 
claim; 
• an explanation of why the additional material or information is needed;
• a description of the plan’s review procedures and the time limits that apply to 
them, including a statement of your right to bring a civil action under ERISA, if 
this Plan is subject to ERISA, within one year of the grievance or appeal decision 
if you submit a grievance or appeal and the claim denial is upheld;
• information about any internal rule, guideline, protocol, or other similar criterion 
relied upon in making the claim determination and about your right to request a 
copy of it free of charge, along with a discussion of the claims denial decision;
• information about the scientific or clinical judgment for any determination based 
on Medical Necessity or experimental treatment, or about your right to request 
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 70 -
this explanation free of charge, along with a discussion of the claims denial decision; and,
• information regarding your potential right to an External Appeal pursuant to Federal law.
• the availability of, and contact information for, any applicable office of health insurance consumer assistance or ombudsman who may assist you.
For claims involving urgent/concurrent care:
• the Claims Administrator’s notice will also include a description of the applicable 
urgent/concurrent review process; and
• the Claims Administrator may notify you or your authorized representative within 
72 hours orally and then furnish a written notification.
Appeals
You have the right to appeal an adverse benefit determination (claim denial or rescission of coverage). You or your authorized representative must file your appeal within 
180 calendar days after you are notified of the denial or rescission. You will have the 
opportunity to submit written comments, documents, records, and other information supporting your claim. The Claims Administrator's review of your claim will take into account all information you submit, regardless of whether it was submitted or considered 
in the initial benefit determination.
• The Claims Administrator shall offer a single mandatory level of appeal and an 
additional voluntary second level of appeal which may be a panel review, independent review, or other process consistent with the entity reviewing the appeal. 
The time frame allowed for the Claims Administrator to complete its review is dependent upon the type of review involved (e.g., pre-service, concurrent, post-service, urgent, etc.).
• In accordance with reasonable claims procedures, the Plan may require your authorized representative to be designated in writing on a form provided by the 
Claims Administrator or Plan Administrator.
For pre-service claims involving urgent/concurrent care, you may obtain an expedited 
appeal. You or your authorized representative may request it orally or in writing. All 
necessary information, including the Claims Administrator’s decision, can be sent between the Claims Administrator and you by telephone, facsimile or other similar method. 
To file an appeal for a claim involving urgent/concurrent care, you or your authorized 
representative must contact the Claims Administrator at the number shown on your 
Identification Card and provide at least the following information:
• the identity of the claimant;
• the date(s) of the medical service;
• the specific medical condition or symptom; 
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 71 -
• the Provider’s name;
• the service or supply for which approval of benefits was sought; and
• any reasons why the appeal should be processed on a more expedited basis.
All other requests for appeals should be submitted in writing by the you or your authorized representative, except where the acceptance of oral appeals is otherwise required 
by the nature of the appeal (e.g., Urgent Care). You or your authorized representative 
must submit a request for review to:
Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield, ATTN: Appeals, P.O. Box 105568, Atlanta, Georgia 30348
You must include your Member Identification Number when submitting an appeal.
Upon request, the Claims Administrator will provide, without charge, reasonable access 
to, and copies of, all documents, records, and other information relevant to your claim. 
“Relevant” means that the document, record, or other information:
• was relied on in making the benefit determination; or
• was submitted, considered, or produced in the course of making the benefit determination; or demonstrates compliance with processes and safeguards to ensure that claim determinations are made in accordance with the terms of the 
plan, applied consistently for similarly situated claimants; or
• is a statement of the plan’s policy or guidance about the treatment or benefit relative to your diagnosis. 
The Claims Administrator will also provide you, free of charge, with any new or additional evidence considered, relied upon, or generated in connection with your claim. In 
addition, before you receive an adverse benefit determination or review based on a new 
or additional rationale, the Claims Administrator will provide you, free of charge, with the 
rationale.
For Out of State Appeals you have to file Provider appeals with the Host Plan. This 
means Providers must file appeals with the same plan to which the claim was filed.
How Your Appeal will be Decided
When the Claims Administrator considers Your appeal, the Claims Administrator will not 
rely upon the initial benefit determination or, for voluntary second-level appeals, to the 
earlier appeal determination. The review will be conducted by an appropriate reviewer 
who did not make the initial determination and who does not work for the person who 
made the initial determination. A voluntary second-level review will be conducted by an 
appropriate reviewer who did not make the initial determination or the first-level appeal 
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 72 -
determination and who does not work for the person who made the initial determination 
or first- level appeal determination.
If the denial was based in whole or in part on a medical judgment, including whether the 
treatment is experimental, investigational, or not Medically Necessary, the reviewer will 
consult with a health care professional who has the appropriate training and experience 
in the medical field involved in making the judgment. This health care professional will 
not be one who was consulted in making an earlier determination or who works for one 
who was consulted in making an earlier determination.
Notification of the Outcome of the Appeal
If you appeal a claim involving urgent/concurrent care, the Claims Administrator will notify you of the outcome of the appeal as soon as possible, but not later than 72 hours after receipt of your request for appeal.
If you appeal any other pre-service claim, the Claims Administrator will notify you of the 
outcome of the appeal within 30 days after receipt of your request for appeal.
If you appeal a post-service claim, the Claims Administrator will notify you of the outcome of the appeal within 60 days after receipt of your request for appeal.
Appeal Denial
If your appeal is denied, that denial will be considered an adverse benefit determination. 
The notification from the Claims Administrator will include all of the information set forth 
in the above section entitled “Notice of Adverse Benefit Determination.” 
If, after the Plan’s denial, the Claims Administrator considers, relies on or generates any 
new or additional evidence in connection with your claim, the Claims Administrator will 
provide you with that new or additional evidence, free of charge. The Claims Administrator will not base its appeal decision on a new or additional rationale without first providing You (free of charge) with, and a reasonable opportunity to respond to, any such new 
or additional rationale. If the Claims Administrator fails to follow the Appeal procedures 
outlined under this section the Appeals process may be deemed exhausted. However, 
the Appeals process will not be deemed exhausted due to minor violations that do not 
cause, and are not likely to cause, prejudice or harm so long as the error was for good 
cause or due to matters beyond the Claims Administrator’s control.
Voluntary Second Level Appeals
If you are dissatisfied with the Plan’s mandatory first level appeal decision, a voluntary 
second level appeal is available. If you would like to initiate a second level appeal, 
please write to the address listed above. Voluntary appeals must be submitted within 60 
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 73 -
calendar days of the denial of the first level appeal. You are not required to complete a 
voluntary second level appeal prior to submitting a request for an independent External 
Review.
External Review
If the outcome of the mandatory first level appeal is adverse to you and it was based on 
medical judgment, or if it pertained to a rescission of coverage, you may be eligible for 
an independent External Review pursuant to Federal law.
You must submit your request for External Review to the Claims Administrator within 
four (4) months of the notice of your final internal adverse determination.
A request for an External Review must be in writing unless the Claims Administrator determines that it is not reasonable to require a written statement. You do not have to resend the information that you submitted for internal appeal. However, you are encouraged to submit any additional information that you think is important for review.
For pre-service claims involving urgent/concurrent care, you may proceed with an expedited External Review without filing an internal appeal or while simultaneously pursuing 
an expedited appeal through the Claims Administrator’s internal appeal process. You or 
your authorized representative may request it orally or in writing. All necessary information, including the Claims Administrator’s decision, can be sent between the Claims 
Administrator and you by telephone, facsimile or other similar method. To proceed with 
an expedited External Review, you or your authorized representative must contact the 
Claims Administrator at the number shown on your Identification Card and provide at 
least the following information:
• the identity of the claimant;
• the date(s) of the medical service;
• the specific medical condition or symptom; 
• the Provider’s name;
• the service or supply for which approval of benefits was sought; and
• any reasons why the appeal should be processed on a more expedited basis.
All other requests for External Review should be submitted in writing unless the Claims 
Administrator determines that it is not reasonable to require a written statement. Such 
requests should be submitted by You or Your authorized representative to:
Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield, ATTN: Appeals, P.O. Box 105568, Atlanta, Georgia 30348
You must include Your Member identification number when submitting an appeal.
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 74 -
This is not an additional step that You must take in order to fulfill Your appeal procedure 
obligations described above. Your decision to seek External Review will not affect Your 
rights to any other benefits under this health care plan. There is no charge for You to initiate an independent External Review. The External Review decision is final and binding 
on all parties except for any relief available through applicable state laws or ERISA.
Requirement to file an Appeal before filing a lawsuit
No lawsuit or legal action of any kind related to a benefit decision may be filed by You in 
a court of law or in any other forum, unless it is commenced within one year of the 
Plan's final decision on the claim or other request for benefits. If the Plan decides an appeal is untimely, the Plan's latest decision on the merits of the underlying claim or benefit request is the final decision date. You must exhaust the Plan's internal appeals procedure but not including any voluntary level of appeal, before filing a lawsuit or taking 
other legal action of any kind against the Plan. If Your health benefit plan is sponsored 
by Your Employer and subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 
(ERISA) and Your appeal as described above results in an adverse benefit determination, you have a right to bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of ERISA.
Coordination of Benefits
If you or a covered Dependent is covered by another medical plan, this Plan has a 
coordination of benefits feature to prevent duplication of benefit payments.
Coordination of benefits allow the plans to work together to cover eligible expenses. 
The plan that has the first obligation to pay is called the "primary plan;" the other plan is 
called the "secondary plan." Typically, a secondary plan will pay when its benefit is 
more generous. 
A Member may be covered as a Dependent under two or more plans. Certain rules 
govern which plan is primary and which is secondary. Those rules follow this order (use 
the first rule that applies and disregard the rest of the rules):
• No Coordination Rules: a plan that has no coordination of benefits provision will 
be primary to a plan that does have a coordination of benefits provision;
• Non-Dependent/Dependent: a plan that covers a participant as an employee, 
retiree, or primary member (or in any other capacity other than a dependent) will 
be primary to a plan that covers the person as a dependent; provided however, if 
the person is also a Medicare beneficiary, and as a result of the rules established 
by Title XVIII of the Social Security Act and implementing regulations, Medicare 
is: secondary to the Plan covering the person as a dependent, and primary to 
the plan covering the person as other than a dependent (e.g., a retired 
employee), then the order is reversed so that the plan covering the person as an 
empoyee, retiree, or primary member is secondary and the other plan is primary;
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 75 -
• Dependent Child/Parents Not Separated or Divorced, or Divorced Sharing 
Expenses: unless there is a court decree stating otherwise, when two plans 
cover a dependent child whose parents are married or are living together 
(regardless of whether they have ever been married), or who are divorced or 
separated but who share responsibility for the dependent's health care expenses, the plan of the parent whose birthday falls earlier in the calendar year is the 
primary plan, but if both parents have the same birthday, the plan covering the 
parent for the longest time is considered the primary plan. However, if the other 
plan does not have the foregoing rule, but instead has a rule based upon the 
gender of the parent, and if, as a result, the plans do not agree on the order of 
benefits, the rule in the other plan will determine the order of benefits;
• Dependent Child/Separated or Divorced Parents: when two plans cover a 
dependent child whose parents are divorced or separated or are not living 
together (regardless of whether they have ever been married), the following rules 
apply:
o if there is a court decree giving one parent financial responsibility for the 
medical, dental or other health expenses of the dependent child, that parent's 
plan will be primary (and if that parent does not have coverage, but that 
parent's spouse does, that parent's spouse's plan is the primary plan);
o if there is no court decree or if the court decree does not allocate 
responsibility for the dependent child's health care expenses, then the order 
of benefits for the child is: (a) the plan covering the custodial parent; (b) the 
plan covering the custoidal parent's spouse; (c) the plan covering the non- custodial parent; and then (d) the plan covering the non-custodial parent's 
spouse.
• Active/Inactive Employee: the benefits of a plan that covers a person as an 
employee who is neither laid-off nor retired (or as that employee's dependent) 
are determined before those of a plan that covers that person as a laid-off or 
retired person (or that person's dependent). If the other plan does not have this 
rule and if, as a result, the plans do not agree on the order of benefits, this rule is 
ignored. This rule does not supersede the Non-Dependent/Dependent rule 
above;
• Continuation Coverage: if a person, whose coverage is provided under a right of 
continuation coverage under federal or state law, is also covered by another 
plan, the benefits of the plan that covered the person as an employee (or as the 
employee's dependent) shall be determined first and the benefits under the 
continuation coverage shall be determined second.
• Longer/Shorter Length of Coverage: if none of the above rules determines the 
order of benefits, the benefits of the plan that covered an employee longer are 
determined before those of the plan that covered the employee for a shorter time.
Under coordination of benefits, if the Plan is the secondary payer, the Plan will 
determine what benefits it would have paid if you did not have other coverage, and then 
deduct the amount paid by the other plan. If the other plan pays more than the Plan 
would normally pay, then the Plan will not pay any additional benefits. If the other plan 
pays less than the Plan would pay, then the Plan will pay the difference up to its normal 
benefit. 
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 76 -
Facility of Payment
A payment made under another plan may include an amount that should have been 
paid under this Plan. If it does, this Plan may pay that amount to the organization that 
made that payment. That amount will then be treated as though it was a benefit paid 
under this Plan and this Plan will not have to pay that amount again. The term 
"payment made" includes providing benefits in the form of services, in which case 
"payment made" means reasonable cash value of the benefits provided in the form of 
services.
Coordination with Medicare
Any benefits covered under both this Plan and Medicare will be paid according to 
Medicare Secondary Payor laws and regulations. This Plan may be amended to 
accommodate changes in Medicare eligibility or benefits. To the extent allowed under 
Medicare Secondary Payor laws and regulations, this Plan will be secondary to 
coverage under Medicare. The benefit payable under this Plan shall be reduced by the 
greater of: (a) the amount actually paid by Medicare; or (b) the amount Medicare would 
pay if the Member was eligible for Medicare and was enrolled in Medicare (even if the 
Member was not actually enrolled). If required by law, this Plan will be primary to 
Medicare and this Plan shall pay for Covered Expenses as set forth in the Plan. Where 
Medicare is the primary payor, all sums paid by Medicare for services provided to 
Members shall be reimbursed by or on behalf of the Member to the Plan, to the extent 
the Plan has made payment for such services.
Coordination with Worker's Compensation
The benefits under the Plan are not designed to duplicate any benefit for which 
Members are eligible under the Worker's Compensation Law. This Plan shall be 
secondary to any such benefits. All sums paid or payable by Worker's Compensation 
for services provided to a Member shall be reimbursed by, or on behalf of, the Member 
to the Plan to the extent the Plan has made or makes payment for such services. It is 
understood that coverage hereunder is not in lieu of, and shall not affect, any 
requirements for coverage under Worker's Compensation.
Coordination with Other Government Programs
Except insofar as applicable law would require the Plan to be the primary payor, the 
benefits under the Plan shall not duplicate any benefits to which Members are entitled 
or for which they are eligible under any other governmental program. To the extent the 
Plan has duplicated such benefits, all sums payable under such programs for services 
to Members shall be paid by or on behalf of the Member to the Plan.
Subrogation and Right of Reimbursement
These provisions apply when Plan benefits are paid as a result of injuries or illnesses
you sustained and you have a right to a Recovery or have received a Recovery.
Subrogation and Reimbursement
The Claims Administrator or the Company has the right to recover Plan payments made 
on your behalf from any party responsible for compensating you for your injuries
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 77 -
through a Recovery. The Plan's subrogation and reimbursement rights apply if a 
Member receives, or has the right to receive, any sum of money through a Recovery, 
regardless of whether it is characterized as amounts paid for medical expenses or 
otherwise, paid or payable from any person, plan or legal entity that is legally obligated 
to make payments as a result of a judgment, settlement, or otherwise, arising out of any 
act or omission of any third party (whether a third party or another Member under the 
Plan): (a) who is allegedly wholly or partially liable for costs or expenses incurred by the 
Member, in connection for which the Plan provided benefits to, or on behalf of, such 
Member; or (b) whose act or omission allegedly caused injury or sickness to the 
Member, in connection for which the Plan provided benefits to, or on behalf of, such 
Member.
For example, if you are in a car accident, sue the other driver, and recover money for 
your medical expenses, you will have to pay that money back to the Plan if the Plan 
already paid for your medical expenses. The following rules apply. These rules may be 
modified to the extent necessary to comply with applicable law.
• By participating in the Plan, you and your Dependents agree that the Plan is 
subrogated to all of your and your Dependents' rights, and you acknowledge that 
the Plan will have a lien against any sum of money received from a third party or 
its insurers or the insurer of a Member.
• In the event a Member settles with, recovers from, or is reimbursed by any third 
party, the Member shall agree to hold any such funds received in trust for the 
benefit of the Plan, and to reimburse the Plan for all benefits paid or that will be 
paid as a result of the Member's injury or condition.
• The Plan has the first priority for the full amount of benefits it has paid from any 
recovery regardless of whether the Member is fully compensated, and regardless 
of whether the payments the Member receives make the Member whole for the 
Member's losses, injuries, damages, loss, or debt. The Plan expressly 
repudiates the "make whole" doctrine and all other legal or equitable concepts 
that reduce the Plan's subrogation/reimbursement rights. The Plan's rights shall 
continue until the Member's obligations to the Plan are fully discharged. This 
right to subrogation pro tanto shall exist in all cases. The Plan's right is a first 
priority lien, and the Plan's subrogation and reimbursement rights shall be first 
satisfied before any part of a Recovery is applied to a Member's claim, attorney 
fees, other expenses, or costs
• If a Member fails or refuses to comply with these provisions, the Plan has the 
right to impose a constructive trust over any and all funds the Member receives
or has the right to receive. The Plan has the authority to pursue any and all legal 
and equitable relief available to enforce the rights against any and all appropriate 
parties who may be in possession of the funds.
• The Plan is not responsible for any attorney fees, other expenses, or costs 
without its prior written consent. The "common fund" doctrine does not apply to 
any funds recovered by any attorney hired by a Member regardless of whether 
funds recovered are used to repay benefits paid by the Plan.
• The Plan, through the Plan Administrator, has full discretionary authority to 
construe and interpret these provisions and to determine all questions of fact and 
law arising hereunder. It will be within the discretionary authority of the Plan 
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 78 -
Administrator to resolve, settle, or otherwise compromise its subrogation and 
reimbursement rights when appropriate. The Plan Administrator is under no 
obligation to reduce its lien or reimbursement rights unless, in its sole discretion, 
it determines that doing so is appropriate.
• If the Member or anyone acting on his or her behalf has not taken action to 
pursue his or her rights against a third party or any other persons to obtain a 
judgment, settlement or other Recovery, the Plan Administrator or its designee, 
upon giving 30 days' written notice to the Member, shall have the right to take 
such action in the name of the Member to recover that amount of benefits paid 
under the Plan; provided, however, that any such action taken without the 
consent of the Member shall be without prejudice to such Member.
• The Plan may withhold payment of benefits for an injury or illness when a party 
other than the Member or the Plan may be liable for expenses for that injury or 
illness until liability is legally determined. In the event that any payment is made 
under the Plan for which any party other than the Member or the Plan may be 
liable, the Plan shall be subrogated to all rights of recovery of the Member to the 
extent of payments by the Plan and shall have the right to be reimbursed.
• If the Member receives any sum of money described in this SUBROGATION AND 
REIMBURSEMENT section, the Plan shall have no further obligation to pay benefits 
relating in any way to future claims for the same or related injuries or illnesses, 
including but not limited to any complications thereof, for which the Member 
received such sum of money, and Covered Expenses incurred for such future 
claims shall be excluded.
Your Duties
• You must notify the Claims Administrator promptly of how, when, and where an 
accident or incident resulting in personal injury or illness to you occurred and all 
information regarding the parties involved;
• You and any legal representatives must do whatever is necessary to enable the 
Plan to exercise its rights and do nothing to prejudice them. You shall not 
discharge or release any party from any alleged obligation to you or take any 
other action that could impair the Plan's rights to subrogation or reimbursement 
without the written authorization of a Plan representative. Upon request, a 
Member shall execute and return a subrogation agreement to the Plan and will 
supply other reasonable information and assistance as requested by the Plan 
regarding the claim or potential claim. If the subrogation agreement is not 
executed and returned or if information and assistance is not provided to the Plan 
upon request, no benefits will be payable under the Plan with respect to costs 
incurred in connection with such illness or injury.
• You must cooperate with the Plan in the investigation, settlement, and protection 
of the Plan's rights;
• You must send the Claims Administrator copies of all police reports, notices or 
other papers received in connection with the accident or incident resulting in 
personal injury or illness to you; and
• You must promptly notify the Claims Administrator if you retain an attorney or if a 
lawsuit is filed on your behalf.
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 79 -
Right of Recovery
Whenever payment has been made in error, the Plan will have the right to recover the 
payment from you or any other appropriate person or entity, including the Provider, 
whether or not the payment error was made due to the Company's, Plan 
Administrator's, Claims Administrator's, or Plan's own error. The Plan reserves the right 
to deduct or offset any amounts paid in error from any pending or future claim.
If the amount of the payments made by this Plan is more than should have been paid 
under this SUBROGATION AND RIGHT OF REIMBURSEMENT provision, this Plan may recover 
the excess from one or more of:
• the persons it has paid or for whom it has paid;
• another plan; or
• the Provider of service.
The "amount of the payments made" includes the reasonable cash value of any benefits 
provided in the form of services.
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 80 -
Termination and Continuation
Subject to COBRA, if you cease to meet eligibility requirements as outlined in this Plan, 
your benefits will terminate automatically at midnight of the last day you meet the Plan’s 
eligibility requirements as described in the ELIGIBILITY section of this Plan. You shall 
notify the Claims Administrator and/or the Company immediately if you cease to meet 
the eligibility requirements. You shall be responsible for payment for any services 
incurred by you after you cease to meet eligibility requirements.
If a Member engages in fraudulent conduct or furnishes the Company or Claims 
Administrator fraudulent or misleading material information relating to claims or 
application for benefits, then the Company may terminate that Member's benefits. 
Termination is effective on the date of the fraudulent conduct or furnishing of fraudulent 
or misleading material information, whichever is applicable. You shall be responsible to 
pay the Company for the cost of previously received services based on the Reasonable 
Charges for such services, less any Copayments made or fees paid for such services. 
The Company will also terminate your Dependent's benefits, effective on the date your 
benefits were terminated, if you were the Member who engaged in the fraud or 
furnishing of fraudulent or misleading material information. 
If you permit the use of your or any other Member's Identification Card by any other 
person, use another person's card, or use an invalid card to obtain services, your 
coverage shall terminate immediately. Any Member involved in the misuse of an 
Identification Card will be liable to and must reimburse the Company for the Reasonable 
Charges for services received through such misuse.
If you fail to pay or fail to make satisfactory arrangements to pay any amount due to the 
Company or any Provider (including the failure to pay required Deductibles and/or 
Copayments), the Company may terminate your rights and may also terminate the 
rights of all your eligible Dependents, effective immediately.
A Dependent's benefits terminate on the date that person no longer meets the definition 
of Dependent. 
COBRA
This section is intended to comply with COBRA, which requires continuation of medical 
coverage to certain Members whose coverage would otherwise terminate. If this 
section is incomplete or in conflict with the law, the terms of the law will govern.
Continuation of Coverage
You and your covered Dependents may continue your current medical coverage if it 
ends because of one of the following "qualifying events:"
• layoff;
• you voluntarily leave the Company;
• the Company ends your employment for any reason (including benefits 
terminating after you have been on Disability for 2 years), unless you were fired 
because for gross misconduct; or
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 81 -
• the number of hours you are scheduled to work are reduced below those 
required for you to be eligible for benefits.
COBRA coverage also is available to your covered Dependents if their coverage would 
otherwise end because of one of the following "qualifying events:"
• layoff;
• you voluntarily leave the Company;
• the Company ends your employment for any reason (including benefits 
terminating after you have been on Disability for 2 years), unless you were fired 
because for gross misconduct; 
• the number of hours you are scheduled to work are reduced below those 
required for you to be eligible for benefits;
• your death;
• your divorce, legal separation or annulment of your marriage;
• Medicare entitlement;
• your Dependent child becomes ineligible for coverage; or
• your Dependent no longer qualifies as a covered Dependent
Only "qualified beneficiaries" may elect continuation coverage under the Plan. For 
purposes of the medical, Prescription Drug, and vision benefits of the Plan, a "qualified 
beneficiary" means you if you are an individual who, on the day before a qualifying 
event, is a Covered Employee or an eligible Dependent under the medical, Prescription 
Drug, and/or vision benefits. Such term will also include a child who is born to or placed 
for adoption with the Covered Employee during the period of continuation coverage.
COBRA coverage continues for up to 18, 29 or 36 months, depending on the qualifying 
event. If you elect to continue coverage under COBRA, you are required to pay 102% 
of the cost of coverage in after-tax dollars. 
If you are disabled as determined by the Social Security Administration, you may elect 
to continue COBRA for up to 29 months but pay 102% of the cost for coverage for the 
first 18 months, and 150% for the remaining 11 months. 
Premiums are due monthly and are made on an after-tax basis. If COBRA continuation 
coverage is elected after a qualifying event has occurred, a qualified beneficiary will be 
permitted, for a period of 45 days after the date of his or her election of continuation 
coverage, to pay the premium required under the Plan for continuation coverage during 
the period preceding his or her election. Failure to pay premiums on a timely basis 
will result in termination of coverage as of the date the premium is due. Payment 
of any premium (other than the initial one – described above) will be considered "timely" 
only if it is made within 30 days after the due date. It is your responsibility to pay the 
premium on time. If the Plan provides you with payment reminders or payment 
coupons, but later ceases to do so, it still remains your responsibility to make the 
premium payments on time even if you no longer receive the payment reminders 
or coupons.
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 82 -
Length of COBRA coverage Qualifying Event
18 months (for Employee and Depenents) You resign
You transfer to part-time or limited-hour 
status
Your employment ends for a reason other 
than gross misconduct
The last day of FMLA if you fail to return to 
Active Work
29 months (for Employee and 
Dependents) 
 
The Social Security Administration 
determines that you or your Dependent
was permanently disabled at any time 
within the first 60 days of continuation 
coverage.
36 months (for Dependents) Your divorce, annulment or legal 
separation from your Spouse
Your death
Your Dependent child becomes ineligible 
for coverage (in this case, your child would 
be eligible for COBRA, but your coverage 
under the Plan would not change)
Your Medicare entitlement
36 months (for Domestic Partner) 
 
You and your Domestic Partner terminate 
your relationship.
If you are already covered by COBRA under the 18 month provision, and any of the 
qualifying events in the immediately preceding table occur, your Dependents can extend 
coverage to a maximum of 36 months from the date of the original qualifying event. 
This second qualifying event will not act to extend coverage beyond the original 18 
month period for any Dependents (other than a newborn or newly adopted child) who 
were added after the date continuation coverage began.
If you become entitled to Medicare and then within 18 months experience a termination 
of employment or reduction in hours, qualified beneficiaries other than you may elect to 
extend coverage for up to 36 months from the date you became entitled to Medicare.
If you elect COBRA coverage and the Social Security Administration determines that a 
qualified beneficiary was disabled at any time within the first 60 days of the date of the 
initial continuation coverage, the following applies:
• all qualified beneficiaries whose coverage is due to the same qualifying event 
may elect to extend coverage for up to 29 months from the date of the original 
qualifying event. To obtain this extended coverage, the qualified beneficiary 
must notify the COBRA Administrator of the disability determination within 18 
months of the qualifying event and within 60 days after the latest of: (a) the date 
the qualified beneficiary is determined to be disabled by the Social Security 
Administration, (b) the date the qualifying event occurs, (c) the date the qualified 
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 83 -
beneficiary loses or would lose coverage, or (d) the date the qualified beneficiary 
is notified of his or her notice obligation; and
• the qualified beneficiary must notify the COBRA Administrator within 30 days of 
the later of: (a) the date of final determination by the Social Security 
Administration that the qualified beneficiary is no longer disabled, or (b) the date 
the qualified beneficiary is notified of his or her notice obligation.
Electing COBRA
You and your covered Dependents will receive election forms and more information 
about COBRA from the CBS Benefits Contact Center (the COBRA Administrator). If 
you wish to elect COBRA coverage, you must do so no later than 60 days after the date 
your coverage ends as a result of a qualifying event, or 60 days after the date of the 
notice of COBRA rights and your election is mailed to you, whichever is later. You must 
pay any cost necessary to avoid a gap in coverage within 45 days of the date you elect 
COBRA. Each qualified beneficiary who loses coverage as a result of a qualifying event 
shall have an independent right to elect continuation coverage, regardless of whether 
any other qualified beneficiary with respect to the same qualifying event elects 
continuation coverage.
Required Notices 
Qualified Beneficiary Notification to Plan Administrator
COBRA requires you or your covered Dependent(s) to notify the COBRA
Administrator about events affecting the right to continuation coverage. Here's a 
summary of your notification requirements when you or your Dependents' coverage 
would otherwise end:
When These Events Occur: You Must Notify the Plan Administrator:
your marital status changes, one of your 
Dependents no longer qualifies for Dependent coverage, or a second qualifying 
event occurs during the initial 18-month 
COBRA continuation coverage period.
within 60 days after the later of: (a) the 
date of the event, (b) the date you or 
your Dependent would lose coverage 
due to the event, or (c) the date you 
are notified of your notice obligation.
you or a Dependent are determined to be 
eligible for Social Security disability benefits (at the time of termination of employment or reduction in hours or within 60 
days of the date employment terminates 
or hours are reduced).
within the first 18 months of your continuation coverage and within 60 days 
after the latest of: (a) the date you or 
your Dependent are determined to be 
disabled by the Social Security Administration, (b) the date the qualifying 
event occurs, (c) the date you or your 
Dependent lose or would lose cover-
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 84 -
age, or (d) the date you or your Dependent are notified of your notice obligation.
if Social Security determines you or a Dependent are no longer disabled. 
within 30 days of the later of: (a) the 
date of final determination by the Social Security Administration that you or 
your Dependent are no longer disabled, or (b) the date you or your Dependent are notified of your notice obligation.
If you do not provide notice within the specified time period, continuation 
coverage will not be available to you or your Dependents.
General Notification to Employee and Spouse
The Company will give written notice to you and your Spouse of your rights to 
continuation coverage. This notice will be provided to you and your Spouse not later 
than the earlier of: (a) 90 days after your coverage begins, or (b) the date you would 
otherwise receive an election form due to a qualifying event (see COBRA Administrator 
Notification to Qualified Beneficiary below).
Company Notification to COBRA Administrator
The Company will notify the COBRA Administrator in the event of an Employee's death, 
employment termination, reduction in hours of employment, or entitlement to Medicare 
benefits, within 30 days after the date of the qualifying event.
COBRA Administrator Notification to Qualified Beneficiary
• Within 14 days after receiving a notice from you under the rules outlined above,
or within 14 days after receiving a notice from the Company about your 
employment termination, reduction in hours, disability, death, or entitlement to 
Medicare, the COBRA Administrator will notify you and/or your eligible 
Dependents of your right to elect continuation coverage. You and/or your 
Dependents will have 60 days to elect continuation coverage from the later of the 
date the notice is sent to you or the date you would lose coverage. Your initial 
payment for continuation coverage is required within 45 days of the date such 
coverage is elected and will be in an amount sufficient to pay for all months of 
coverage between the date of the qualifying event and the date payment is 
made.
• In addition, if you or another qualified beneficiary are not entitled to receive 
continuation coverage, you or the qualified beneficiary will be notified of this and 
will be provided with an explanation as to why you or the qualified beneficiary are 
not entitled to this continuation coverage. 
• Finally, the COBRA Administrator will provide notice to each qualified beneficiary 
of any termination of continuation coverage which is effective earlier than the end 
of the maximum period of continuation coverage applicable to such qualifying 
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 85 -
event, as soon as practicable following the COBRA Administrator's determination 
that continuation coverage should terminate.
In general, the COBRA Administrator's notices to qualified beneficiaries must be 
provided to each qualified beneficiary; however (a) a single notice can be provided to 
the Employee and the Employee's Spouse or Domestic Partner (as applicable) if the 
Spouse or Domestic Partner resides with the Employee, and/or (b) a single notice can 
be provided to the Employee or the Employee's Spouse or Domestic Partner for a 
Dependent child of the Employee, if the Dependent child resides with the Employee, the 
Spouse (as applicable), or Domestic Partner.
When COBRA Ends
COBRA coverage ends when one of the following events occurs: 
• the COBRA period (18, 29, or 36 months) ends;
• premiums are not paid on a timely basis;
• the Company stops offering any group health plan;
• the person who elected COBRA becomes covered under another group medical 
plan as an employee or otherwise and is not affected by any Pre-Existing 
Condition prohibitions or limitations in such plan;
• the person who elected COBRA first becomes entitled to Medicare after COBRA 
coverage was elected; or
• the person who elected COBRA ceases to be disabled if continuation coverage is 
due to a disability.
In addition, the Plan may also terminate the continuation coverage of a qualified 
beneficiary for cause on the same basis that the Plan could terminate the coverage of a 
similarly situated non-COBRA beneficiary for cause (e.g., in the case of submitting 
fraudulent claims to the Plan). 
COBRA Continuation Coverage Provided
The COBRA continuation coverage provided is identical to the coverage provided to 
similarly situated members covered by the Plan with respect to whom a qualifying event 
has not occurred. If coverage is changed under the Plan for any group of similarly 
situated covered members, coverage will also be modified for all qualified beneficiaries. 
Evidence of good health is not required for COBRA continuation coverage. During the 
Plan's open enrollment period during which similarly situated active employees may 
choose to be covered under another group health plan, or to add or eliminate coverage 
of family members, the Plan shall provide the same opportunity to qualified beneficiaries 
who have elected continuation coverage.
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 86 -
USERRA Rights and Coverage
USERRA Continuation Coverage
If a Covered Employee is absent from a position of employment with the Company by 
reason of Service in the Uniformed Services and was covered under the Plan 
immediately prior to his or her absence due to Service in the Uniformed Services, such 
Covered Employee and his or her eligible covered Dependents shall be entitled to elect 
to continue health care coverage under the Plan for a period equal to the lesser of (a) 
the 24 month period beginning on the date on which such Covered Employee is absent 
from employment with the Company by reason of Service in the Uniformed Services or 
(b) the day following the date on which the Covered Employee fails to apply for or return 
to a position of employment with the Company as determined pursuant to USERRA 
Section 4312(e). Covered Employees may elect to discontinue coverage under the 
Plan during Service in the Uniformed Services by submitting the applicable forms to the 
Company.
Election of USERRA
Continuation coverage does not begin unless it is elected by the Covered Employee. 
The Covered Employee may elect to continue coverage by reason of Service in the 
Uniformed Services for himself and his covered Dependents. (Dependents do not have 
an independent right to elect USERRA continuation coverage.) The election period for 
continued coverage shall begin on the date the Covered Employee gives the Company
advance notice that he is required to report for Uniformed Service (whether such service 
is voluntary or involuntary) and shall end 60 days after the date the Covered Employee 
would lose coverage under the Plan. 
If the Covered Employee is unable to give advance notice of Uniformed Service, the 
Covered Employee may still be able to elect continuation coverage under this Article if 
the failure to give advance notice was because giving such notice was impossible, 
unreasonable, or precluded by military necessity. In such case, the election period shall 
begin on the date the Covered Employee leaves for Uniformed Service and shall end on 
the earlier of: (a) the 24 month period beginning on the date on which the Covered 
Employee's absence for the Uniformed Service begins; or (b) the date on which the 
Covered Employee fails to return from Uniformed Service or apply for a position of 
employment as provided under 20 C.F.R. §§ 1002.115-123. For these purposes, 
"military necessity" occurs only when deemed to be so by a designated military authority 
as described in 20 C.F.R. § 1002.86 and may include situations where a mission, 
operation, exercise or requirement is classified, or could be compromised or otherwise 
adversely affected by public knowledge. It may be impossible or unreasonable to give 
advance notice under certain circumstances such as when the Company is unavailable 
or the Covered Employee is required to report for Uniformed Service in an extremely 
short period of time.
The election of USERRA continuation coverage must be made on a form provided by 
the Plan Administrator and made within the 60 day period described herein. An election 
is considered to be made on the date it is sent to the Plan Administrator. If timely 
elected pursuant to this Section, coverage shall be reinstated as of the date the eligible 
Employee lost coverage due to absence for Service in the Uniformed Service and shall 
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 87 -
last for the period described above; provided that the eligible Employee pays all unpaid 
costs for the coverage.
Cost of USERRA Continuation Coverage
If a Covered Employee elects USERRA continuation coverage, such Covered 
Employee shall be required to pay one hundred two percent (102%) of the full premium 
cost for such coverage if the Covered Employee's Service in the Uniformed Services 
lasts longer than 30 days.
Premiums are due on the first day of each month for which continuation coverage is 
desired. Failure to pay premiums on a timely basis shall result in termination of 
coverage as of the date the premium is due. Payment of any premium, other than that 
referred to below, shall only be considered to be timely if made within 30 days after the 
date due. A premium must also be paid for the cost of continuation coverage for the 
time period between the date that continuation coverage commences and the date 
continuation coverage is elected. This payment must be made within 45 days after the 
date of election. Failure to pay this premium on the date due shall result in cancellation 
of coverage back to the initial date coverage would have terminated.
Coordination with COBRA
A Covered Employee who is absent from work by reason of Service in the Uniformed 
Services may be eligible for COBRA continuation coverage as described in the COBRA
section of this Plan. The USERRA continuation coverage described in this section shall 
not limit or otherwise interfere with the COBRA continuation coverage rights; provided, 
however, any USERRA continuation coverage shall run concurrently with any COBRA 
continuation coverage.
Rights, Benefits, and Obligations of Employees Absent from Employment By 
Reason of Service in the Uniformed Services
A Covered Employee who is absent from employment with the Company by reason of 
Service in the Uniformed Services shall be considered on furlough or leave of absence 
while performing such service and shall be entitled to such other rights and benefits as 
are generally provided by the Company to employees having similar status and pay who 
are on furlough or leave of absence; provided, however, a Covered Employee who 
knowingly provides written notice of intent not to return to employment with the 
Company shall cease to be entitled to such rights and benefits. 
USERRA Continuation Health Benefits Provided
The continuation coverage provided to a Covered Employee serving in the Uniformed 
Services who elects continued coverage (and his covered Dependents) shall be 
identical to the coverage provided under the Plan to similarly situated persons covered 
by the Plan who are active. If coverage is modified under the Plan for any group of 
similarly situated beneficiaries, such coverage shall also be modified in the same 
manner for all individuals who are covered under USERRA continuation coverage. 
Continuation coverage may not be conditioned on evidence of good health. If the Plan 
provides an open enrollment period during which similarly situated active employees 
may choose to be covered under another group health plan or under another benefit 
package within the Plan, or to add or eliminate coverage of family members, the Plan 
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 88 -
shall provide the same opportunity to individuals who have elected USERRA 
continuation coverage.
Reinstatement of Coverage Upon Reemployment
The Company shall promptly reinstate Plan coverage when a Covered Employee is 
reemployed after Service in the Uniformed Service; provided, however, a request to 
reinstate Plan coverage must be made by the Covered Employee within 31 days of 
reemployment (presuming the Covered Employee has sought reemployment with the 
Plan in compliance with 20 C.F.R. Part 1002, Subpart C). If no request is made within 
this time period, no coverage shall be reinstated under the Plan. A Covered Employee 
and his or her eligible covered Dependents whose benefit coverage is terminated by 
reason of Service in the Uniformed Services, shall not be subject to any exclusion or 
waiting period upon reinstatement of such coverage following Service in the Uniformed 
Services; provided however, the above shall not apply to any condition determined by 
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to have been incurred in or aggravated during the 
performance of Service in the Uniformed Services.
Administrative Information
The information presented in this Plan is intended to comply with the disclosure 
requirements of the regulations issued by the U.S. Department of Labor under the 
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA).
This Plan supersedes and replaces any past plans or summaries and any verbal or 
written representations or practices inconsistent with the Plan. 
Plan Administrator
The Company shall be the Plan Administrator within the meaning of the ERISA; 
provided, however, the Company may from time to time designate a person, 
subcommittee, Claims Administrator, or organization to perform certain responsibilities 
of the Plan Administrator. Any such individual, subcommittee, or organization shall 
perform the delegated functions until removal by the Company, which removal may be 
without cause and without advance notice. Except as otherwise specifically provided in 
the Plan, the Plan Administrator shall have full, discretionary authority to control and 
manage the operation and administration of the Plan, and shall be the named fiduciary 
of the Plan. The Plan Administrator shall have all power necessary or convenient to 
enable the Plan Administrator to exercise such authority. The Plan Administrator or its 
designee may provide rules and regulations, not inconsistent with the provisions hereof, 
for the operation and management of the Plan, and may from time to time amend or 
rescind such rules or regulations. The Plan Administrator shall have the full discretion, 
power, and the duty to take all action necessary or proper to carry out the duties 
required under the Act. The Plan Administrator is authorized to accept service of legal 
process for the Plan. The Company may appoint a carrier, person, entity or corporation 
to provide consulting services to the Company and to the Plan Administrator in 
connection with the operation of the Plan, and it may perform such other functions and 
services, including the processing and payment of claims, as may be delegated to it by 
the Company.
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 89 -
Except as may be otherwise specifically provided in the Plan or in any benefit contract 
or policy, the Plan Administrator or its designee shall have full, discretionary authority to 
enable it to carry out its duties under the Plan, including but not limited to, the authority 
to determine eligibility under the Plan and to construe and interpret the terms of the Plan 
and to determine all questions of fact or law arising hereunder and to authorize 
coverage in a manner which is cost effective under the Plan. The Plan Administrator 
shall also have the authority to delegate its authority to others, including the Claims 
Administrator. The discretionary authority delegated to any designee shall, however, be 
limited to Plan terms relevant to its delegated responsibilities and shall not permit the 
designee to render a determination or make any representation concerning benefits 
which are not provided by the express terms of the Plan. The designee's actions shall 
be given full force and effect unless determined by the Plan Administrator to be contrary 
to the Plan provisions or arbitrary and capricious. All such determinations and 
interpretations shall be final, conclusive, and binding on all persons affected thereby. 
The Plan Administrator or its designee shall have full, discretionary authority to correct 
any defect, supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency and resolve ambiguities 
in the Plan in such manner and to such extent as it may deem expedient, and the Plan 
Administrator or its designee shall be the sole and final judge of such expediency. 
Benefits under this Plan shall be paid only if the Plan Administrator and/or the Claims 
Administrator decides in his or her discretion that the Covered Person is entitled to such 
benefits under the Plan.
The Plan Administrator may designate another person or persons to carry out any 
fiduciary responsibility of the Plan Administrator under the Plan. For example, the Plan 
Administrator has appointed the Claims Administrator as fiduciary of the Plan for 
purposes of determining claims and appeals for benefits under the Plan. The Plan 
Administrator shall not be liable for any act or omission of such person in carrying out 
such responsibility, except as may be otherwise provided under ERISA. To the extent 
permitted under ERISA, no fiduciary of the Plan shall be liable for any act or omission in 
carrying out the fiduciary's responsibilities under the Plan. To the extent permitted 
under ERISA, each fiduciary under the Plan shall be responsible only for the specific 
duties assigned under the Plan and shall not be directly or indirectly responsible for the 
duties assigned to another fiduciary.
Future of the Plan
The future of the Plan and future benefits depend upon the future of the Company. The 
Company hopes to continue providing benefits and every effort has been made to 
foresee and provide for future benefits. However, the Company reserves the right to 
change, suspend temporarily, or terminate the Plan. The Executive Committee of the 
Company shall make any such change by adoption of the appropriate resolutions. To 
the extent allowed by ERISA, any change, suspension, or termination of the Plan may 
be effective retroactively.
Modifications
This Plan shall be subject to amendment, modification, and termination in accordance 
with any of its provisions by the Company without the consent or concurrence of any 
Member. By electing medical benefits under the Plan or accepting the Plan benefits, all 
Members legally capable of contracting and the legal representatives of all Members 
incapable of contracting agree to all terms, conditions, and provisions hereof.
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 90 -
Employer's Sole Discretion
The Company may, in its sole discretion, cover services and supplies not specifically 
covered by the Plan. This applies if the Company, with advice from the Claims 
Administrator, determines such services and supplies are in lieu of more expensive 
services and supplies, which would otherwise be required for the care and treatment of 
a Member.
Not Liable for Provider Acts of Omissions
The Claims Administrator, the Plan, and/or the Company are not responsible for the 
actual care you receive from any person. This Plan does not give anyone any claim, 
right, or cause of action against the Claims Administrator, the Plan, or the Company
based on what a Provider does or does not do.
Limitation of Rights
Neither the establishment nor maintenance of the Plan nor any amendment thereof, nor 
any act or omission under the Plan or resulting from the operation of the Plan shall be 
construed:
• as conferring upon any Member, beneficiary or any other person a right or claim 
against the Company or the Plan Administrator, except to the extent that such 
right or claim shall be specifically expressed and provided in the Plan or provided 
under ERISA;
• as creating any responsibility or liability of the Company or Plan Administrator for 
the validity or effect of the Plan;
• as a contract or agreement between the Company and any Member or other 
person;
• as being consideration for, or an inducement or condition of, employment of any 
Member or other person, or as affecting or restricting in any manner or to any 
extent whatsoever the rights or obligations of the Company or any Member or 
other person to continue or terminate the employment relationship at any time; or
• as giving any Member or other person, the right to be retained in the service of 
the Company or to interfere with the right of the Company to discharge any 
Member or other person at any time.
Certificate of Creditable Coverage
If your benefits under the Plan are terminated, you and your covered Dependents will 
receive a certification that shows the period of time you received benefits under this 
health benefit Plan. Your certificate of creditable coverage will show your most recent 
period of continuous coverage under the Plan. You may need to furnish the certification 
if you become eligible under another group health plan. You may also need the 
certification to buy, for yourself or your family, an individual policy that does not exclude 
coverage for medical conditions that were present before your enrollment. 
Newborns' and Mothers' Health Protection Act of 1996
Notwithstanding anything in this Plan or the Schedule of Benefits to the contrary, in 
accordance with the Newborns' and Mothers' Health Protection Act, the Plan shall not 
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 91 -
restrict any inpatient hospital confinement in connection with childbirth for the mother or 
newborn child to less than 48 hours following a vaginal delivery or less than 96 hours 
following a caesarean section or require that a provider obtain authorization from the 
Plan for prescribing a confinement not in excess of the above time periods. However, 
the mother's or newborn's attending provider, after consulting with the mother, may 
discharge the mother or the newborn earlier than 48 hours (or 96 hours as applicable). 
Reconstructive Surgery Following Mastectomy
If a Member is receiving benefits under the Plan in connection with a mastectomy and if 
the Member elects breast reconstruction in connection with such mastectomy, the Plan 
shall cover:
• reconstruction of the breast on which the mastectomy has been or will be 
performed;
• surgery and reconstruction of the other breast to produce a symmetrical 
appearance; and
• prostheses and physical complications at all stages of the mastectomy, including 
lymphedemas,
in a manner determined in consultation with the attending Physician and the Member.
The Plan shall not (a) deny any Member eligibility or continued eligibility to enroll or to 
renew coverage under the terms of the Plan solely for the purpose of avoiding the 
coverage provided under this section or (b) penalize or otherwise reduce or limit the 
reimbursement of an attending Provider, or provide incentives (monetary or otherwise) 
to an attending Provider, to induce the provider to provide care to a Member in a 
manner inconsistent with the coverage provided in this section.
Qualified Medical Child Support Orders
The Plan shall provide benefits in accordance with the applicable requirements of a 
Qualified Medical Child Support Order received by the Plan. If the Plan receives a 
medical child support order, the Plan Administrator shall promptly notify the Member, 
and each child of the Member identified in the order, of the receipt of such order and the 
Plan's procedures for determining whether the order is a Qualified Medical Child 
Support Order. Within a reasonable time after receipt of such order, the Plan 
Administrator shall determine whether the order is a qualified medical child support 
order and notify the Member and each child involved of the determination. The Plan 
Administrator shall establish written procedures in accordance with Section 609 of 
ERISA to determine whether a medical child support order received by the Plan is a 
Qualified Medical Child Support Order under ERISA.
Nonalienation and Assignment
Except as provided under a Qualified Medical Child Support Order, no benefit under the 
Plan prior to actual receipt thereof by a Member shall be subject to any debt, liability, 
contract, engagement, or tort of any Member, nor subject to anticipation, sale, 
assignment, transfer, encumbrance, pledge, charge, attachment, garnishment, 
execution, alienation, or any other voluntary or involuntary alienation or other legal or 
equitable process. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the Plan shall pay any 
benefits under the Plan to the Member unless the Member shall assign benefits to a 
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 92 -
hospital, physician, or other provider of service furnishing the services for which benefits 
are provided herein. No assignment, however, shall be binding on the Plan unless the 
Plan Administrator is notified in writing of such assignment prior to payment hereunder.
Privacy of Protected Health Information
Purpose
This Section permits the Company to receive Protected Health Information from the 
Plan or a Business Associate in accordance with the requirements of the Health 
Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) and its implementing 
regulations.
1. Plan Sponsor’s Certification of Compliance.
Neither the Plan nor any health insurance issuer or business associate servicing 
the Plan will disclose Plan Participants’ Protected Health Information to the Plan 
Sponsor unless the Plan Sponsor certifies that the Plan Documents have been 
amended to incorporate this amendment and agrees to abide by this amendment.
2. Purpose of Disclosure to Plan Sponsor.
a. The Plan and any health insurance issuer or business associate servicing 
the Plan will disclose Plan Participants’ Protected Health Information to the 
Plan Sponsor only to permit the Plan Sponsor to carry out administration 
functions for the Plan consistent with the requirements of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and its implementing regulations (45 C.F.R. Parts 160-64). Any disclosure to and use by the Plan 
Sponsor of Plan Participants’ Protected Health Information will be subject 
to and consistent with the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 4 of this amendment.
b. Neither the Plan nor any health insurance issuer or business associate servicing the Plan will disclose Plan Participants’ Protected Health Information 
to the Plan Sponsor unless the disclosures are explained in the Notice of 
Privacy Practices distributed to the Plan Participants.
c. Neither the Plan nor any health insurance issuer or business associate servicing the Plan will disclose Plan Participants’ Protected Health Information 
to the Plan Sponsor for the purpose of employment-related actions or decisions or in connection with any other benefit or employee benefit plan of the 
Plan Sponsor.
3. Restrictions on Plan Sponsor's Use and Disclosure of Protected Health Information.
a. The Plan Sponsor will neither use nor further disclose Plan Participants’ 
Protected Health Information, except as permitted or required by the Plan 
Documents, as amended, or required by law.
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 93 -
b. The Plan Sponsor will ensure that any agent, including any subcontractor, 
to whom it provides Plan Participants’ Protected Health Information agrees 
to the restrictions and conditions of the Plan Documents, including this 
amendment, with respect to Plan Participants’ Protected Health Information.
c. The Plan Sponsor will not use or disclose Plan Participants’ Protected 
Health Information for employment-related actions or decisions or in connection with any other benefit or employee benefit plan of the Plan Sponsor.
d. The Plan Sponsor will report to the Plan any use or disclosure of Plan Participants’ Protected Health Information that is inconsistent with the uses and 
disclosures allowed under this amendment promptly upon learning of such 
inconsistent use or disclosure.
e. The Plan Sponsor will make Protected Health Information available to the 
Plan Participant who is the subject of the information in accordance with 
45 Code of Federal Regulations § 164.524.
f. The Plan Sponsor will make Plan Participants’ Protected Health Information 
available for amendment, and will on notice amend Plan Participants’ Protected Health Information, in accordance with 45 Code of Federal Regulations § 164.526.
g. The Plan Sponsor will track disclosures it may make of Plan Participants’ 
Protected Health Information so that it can make available the information 
required for the Plan to provide an accounting of disclosures in accordance 
with 45 Code of Federal Regulations § 164.528.
h. The Plan Sponsor will make its internal practices, books, and records, relating to its use and disclosure of Plan Participants’ Protected Health Information, available to the Plan and to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to determine compliance with 45 Code of Federal Regulations Parts 160-64, Part E "Privacy of Individually Identifiable Health Information."
i. The Plan Sponsor will, if feasible, return or destroy (and cause it subcontractors and agents to, if feasible, return or destroy) all Plan Participant Protected Health Information, in whatever form or medium (including in any 
electronic medium under the Plan Sponsor’s custody or control), received 
from the Plan, including all copies of and any data or compilations derived 
from and allowing identification of any Participant who is the subject of the 
Protected Health Information, when the Plan Participants’ Protected Health 
Information is no longer needed for the Plan administration functions for 
which the disclosure was made. If it is not feasible to return or destroy all 
Plan Participant Protected Health Information, the Plan Sponsor will limit 
(and will cause its subcontractors and agents to limit) the use or disclosure 
of any Plan Participant Protected Health Information it cannot feasibly return 
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 94 -
or destroy to those purposes that make the return or destruction of the information infeasible.
4. Adequate Separation Between the Plan Sponsor and the Plan.
a. To permit the Plan Sponsor to carry out its responsibilities for administration 
of the Plan, the following employees or classes of employees or other workforce members under the control of the Plan Sponsor may be given access 
to Plan Participants’ Protected Health Information received from the Plan or 
a health insurance issuer or business associate servicing the Plan:
CBS Contact Center Staff, CBS H&W Benefits Staff, H&W Benefits Strategy, IT 
staff assisting with Health Plan data transmission
This list includes every employee or class of employees or other workforce members under the control of the Plan Sponsor who may receive Plan Participants’ 
Protected Health Information relating to payment under, health care operations 
of, or other matters pertaining to the Plan in the ordinary course of business.
b. The employees, classes of employees or other workforce members identified in paragraph 4(a) of the amendment will have access to Plan Participants’ Protected Health Information only to perform the Plan administration 
functions that the Plan Sponsor provides for the Plan.
c. The employees, classes of employees or other workforce members identified in paragraph 4(a) of this amendment will be subject to disciplinary action and sanctions, including termination of employment or affiliation with 
the Plan Sponsor, for any use or disclosure of Plan Participants’ Protected 
Health Information in breach or violation of or noncompliance with the provisions of this amendment to the Plan Documents. Plan Sponsor will 
promptly report such breach, violation or noncompliance to the Plan, as required by paragraph 3(d) of this amendment, and will cooperate with the 
Plan to correct the breach, violation or noncompliance, to impose appropriate disciplinary action or sanctions on each employee or other workforce 
member causing the breach, violation or noncompliance, and to mitigate 
any deleterious effect of the breach, violation or noncompliance on any Participant, the privacy of whose Protected Health Information may have been 
compromised by the breach, violation or noncompliance.
Plan Information Practices Notice
The purpose of this information practices notice is to provide a notice to Members 
regarding the Plan's standards for the collection, use, and disclosure of information 
gathered in connection with the Claims Administrator's business activities.
• The Claims Administrator may collect personal information about a Member from 
persons or entities other than the Member.
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 95 -
• The Claims Administrator may disclose Member information to persons or 
entities outside of the Administrator and the Company without Member 
authorization in certain circumstances.
• A Member has a right of access and correction with respect to all personal 
information collected by the Claims Administrator.
• The Claims Administrator takes reasonable precautions to protect Member 
information in its possession, including the use of restricted computer access.
A Member may request a more detailed notice regarding the types of personal 
information that may be collected by the Plan and the types of disclosures and the 
circumstances under which such disclosures may be made without prior authorization 
by submitting a written request to customer services.
Member's Cooperation
Each Member shall complete and submit to the Plan and the Claims Administrator such 
consents, releases, assignments and other documents as may be requested by the 
Plan or the Claims Administrator in order to obtain or assure reimbursement under 
Medicare, Worker's Compensation or any other governmental program. Any Member 
who fails to cooperate will be responsible for any charge for services.
Conversion Rights
If you or your eligible Dependents do not elect COBRA, your coverage will end. You 
cannot convert the coverage to an individual policy.
Plan Funding
Benefits under the Plan are paid through Company assets, in such amounts as shall be 
determined from time to time by the Company, to be held, managed, invested, and 
distributed in accordance with the provisions of the Plan. All such contributions may 
consist of Company contributions or Member contributions or both, in an amount 
determined by the Company. Certain Member contributions shall be treated as 
Company contributions in accordance with the Cummins Inc. Cafeteria Plan.
Other Provisions
The following provisions shall apply to the Plan:
• The Company and/or its designee, may from time to time consult with counsel, 
who may be counsel for the Company, and shall be fully protected in acting upon 
the advice of such counsel.
• Any action by the Company pursuant to any of the provisions of the Plan shall be 
evidenced by resolution of its governing body, and the Company shall be fully 
protected in acting in accordance with such resolution so certified to it. All 
orders, requests, and instructions to an Employee by the Company, the Claims 
Administrator, or any duly authorized representative, shall be in writing and the 
Company shall act and shall be fully protected in acting in accordance with such 
orders, requests, and instructions.
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 96 -
• If an audit of the Plan is required under ERISA for any Plan Year, the Company 
shall engage an independent qualified public accountant. Such audit shall be 
conducted in accordance with the requirements of Section 103 of ERISA.
• Each fiduciary of the Plan, unless exempted under ERISA, shall be bonded in an 
amount not less than ten percent (10%) of the amount of assets of the Plan 
handled by such fiduciary; provided, however, such bond shall not be less than 
One Thousand Dollars ($1,000) and need not be for more than Five Hundred 
Thousand Dollars ($500,000). The expense of such bond shall be paid from the 
assets of the Plan unless paid by the Company.
• Any payments to any Member shall, to the extent thereof, be in full satisfaction of 
the claim of such Member being paid thereby and the Company may condition 
payment thereof on the delivery by the Member of the duly executed receipt and 
release in such form as may be determined by the Company.
• If the Company is made a party to any legal action regarding the Plan, except for 
a breach of fiduciary responsibility of such person or persons, any and all costs 
and expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees, incurred by the Company in 
connection with such proceeding shall be paid from the assets of the Plan unless 
paid by the Company.
• The Company shall not incur any liability in acting upon any notice, request, 
signed letter, telegram, or other paper or document believed by the Company to 
be genuine or to be executed or sent by an authorized person.
• Any material misrepresentation on the part of the Member in making application 
for coverage, or reclassification of coverage, or in applying for and/or for 
obtaining benefits under the Plan, shall render the coverage null and void ab 
initio.
• If the Company, Plan Administrator, or Claims Administrator makes any payment 
that according to the terms of the Plan should not have been made, it may 
recover that incorrect payment, whether or not it was made due to the 
Company's, Plan Administrator's, or Claims Administrator's, own error, from the 
person to whom it was made or from any other appropriate party. If any such 
incorrect payment is made directly to a Member, the Company, the Claims 
Administrator, or Plan Administrator may deduct it when making future payments 
directly to that Member.
• The Plan shall be construed, enforced, and administered and the validity thereof 
determined in accordance with ERISA and in accordance with the laws of the 
State of Indiana when such laws are not inconsistent with ERISA.
• If, in the opinion of the Plan Administrator, a valid release cannot be rendered by 
a Member for the payment of any benefit payable, such payment may be made 
directly to a Provider, or to the guardian or conservator, or the parents of a minor 
child, or to an individual or individuals who have custody or provide care and 
principal support of the Member. In the event of the death of a Member, payment 
shall be made by the Plan Administrator to the duly qualified and acting personal 
representative of that Member's estate (or, if there is no such personal 
representative, to the person or persons entitled to such payments). Any 
payment made by the Plan Administrator in good faith pursuant to this provision 
shall fully discharge all liability to the extent of such payment.
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 97 -
• Any notice given under the Plan shall be sufficient if given to the Plan 
Administrator, when addressed to it at its office; or if given to a Member, when 
addressed to the Member at his or her address as it appears on the records of 
the Plan Administrator.
ERISA Rights
As a participant in the Plan you are entitled to certain rights and protections under 
ERISA. ERISA entitles you to:
• examine, at the Plan Administrator's office and other specified locations, 
including work sites and union halls, if applicable, without charge, all Plan
documents governing the Plan. These documents may include insurance 
contracts, collective bargaining agreements and the latest annual report (Form 
5500 Series) filed by the Plan with the U.S. Department of Labor and available at 
the Public Disclosure Room of the Employee Benefits Security Administration.
• obtain, after sending a written request to the Plan Administrator, copies of 
documents governing the operation of the Plan, including insurance contracts 
and collective bargaining agreements, and copies of the latest annual report 
(Form 5500 Series) and updated SPD. You may be asked to pay a fee for the 
copies.
• receive a written summary of the Plan's annual financial report. The Plan
Administrator is required by law to provide each Covered Employee with a copy 
of this summary annual report.
• continue health care coverage for yourself, Spouse or Dependents if there is a 
loss of coverage under the Plan as a result of a qualifying event. You or your 
Dependents may have to pay for such coverage. Review this Plan and the 
documents governing the Plan on the rules governing your COBRA continuation 
coverage rights.
• reduction or elimination of exclusionary periods of coverage for Pre-Existing 
Conditions under your group health plan, if you have creditable coverage from 
another plan. You should be provided a certificate of creditable coverage, free of 
charge, from your group health plan or health insurance issuer when you lose 
coverage under the Plan, when you become entitled to elect COBRA 
continuation coverage, when your COBRA continuation coverage ceases, if you 
request it before losing coverage, or if you request it up to 24 months after losing 
coverage. Without evidence of creditable coverage, you may be subject to a 
Pre-Existing Condition exclusion for 12 months (18 months for late enrollees) 
after your enrollment date in your coverage.
In addition to creating rights for plan participants, ERISA imposes duties on the people 
responsible for the operation of the Plan. The people who operate your Plan, called 
"fiduciaries," have a duty to do so prudently and in the best interest of you and other 
Plan participants and beneficiaries. No one, including the Company, your union or any 
other person, may fire you or otherwise discriminate against you in any way to prevent 
you from obtaining a benefit or exercising your rights under ERISA.
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 98 -
If your claim for a benefit is denied or ignored, in whole or in part, you have a right to 
know why this was done, to obtain copies of documents relating to the decision without 
charge, and to appeal any denial, all within certain time schedules.
Under ERISA, there are several steps you can take to enforce your rights. For instance, 
if you request a copy of plan documents or the latest annual report from the Plan and do 
not receive them within 30 days, you may file suit in federal court. In such a case, the 
court may require the Plan Administrator to provide the materials and pay you up to 
$110 a day until you receive the materials, unless the materials were not sent because 
of reasons beyond the Plan Administrator's control.
If you have a claim for benefits that is denied or ignored, in whole or in part, you may file 
suit in a state or federal court. However, before you file suit, you must first complete all 
of the claims procedures outlined in the BENEFITS COMPLAINT AND APPEALS PROCEDURE
and FILING A CLAIM sections. If you do not follow these claims procedures accordingly, 
you will have no right to review and no right to bring action, at law or in equity, in any 
court, and the denial of the claim will become final and binding. 
In addition, if you disagree with the Plan's decision or lack of decision about the 
qualified status of a domestic relations order or a medical child support order, you may 
file suit in federal court. If Plan fiduciaries misuse the Plan's money, or if you are 
discriminated against for asserting your rights, you may seek assistance from the U.S. 
Department of Labor, or you may file suit in federal court. The court will decide who 
should pay court costs and legal fees. If you are successful, the court may order the 
person you sued to pay these costs and fees. If you lose, the court may order you to 
pay these costs and a fee if, for example, it finds your claim is frivolous.
If you have any questions about your Plan, contact the Plan Administrator. If you have 
questions about this statement or about your rights under ERISA, or if you need 
assistance in obtaining documents from the Plan Administrator, contact the nearest 
office of the Employee Benefits Security Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, 
listed in your telephone directory. You may also contact the Division of Technical 
Assistance and Inquiries, Employee Benefits Security Administration, U.S. Department 
of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue N.W., Washington, D.C. 20210. You may also obtain 
certain publications about your rights and responsibilities under ERISA by calling the 
publications hotline of the Employee Benefits Security Administration.
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 99 -
General Information About the Plan
Plan Administrator/Plan Sponsor
Cummins Inc.
500 Jackson Street
Columbus, IN 47201
Phone: (812) 377-5000
Plan name
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan portion of the Cummins Inc. 
and Affiliates Group Insurance Plan
Employer Identification Number (EIN)
The EIN is 35-0257090.
Plan number
The plan number is 510.
Plan Year
The Plan Year is January 1 through December 31.
Source of Benefits Funding
The Plan Sponsor and the employees pay the cost of this Plan. This Plan is selffunded.
Agent for Services of Legal Process
Cummins Inc.
Attn: General Counsel
Post Office Box 3005
500 Jackson Street
Columbus, IN 47201
Phone: (812) 377-5000
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 100 -
Claims Administrators
Medical
Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield
220 Virginia Ave
Indianpolis, IN 46204
Phone: (866) 251-1779
Prescription Drug
Express Scripts
P.O. Box 14711
Lexington, KY 40512
Phone: (866) 544-6968
Website: www.express-scripts.com
Mail Order Prescription Drug Provider
Express Scripts
P.O. Box 747000
Cincinnati, OH 45274-7000
Phone: (866) 544-6968
Website: www.express-scripts.com
COBRA Administrator
CBS Benefits Contact Center
2931 Elm Hill Pike
Nashville, TN 37214
(877) 377-4357
Contacts
For Medical Claim Forms
Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield
Attn: Member Submit Claims
P.O. Box 105187
Atlanta, GA 30348
Phone: (866) 251-1779
Website: www.anthem.com
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 101 -
For COBRA and Domestic Partner Forms
CBS Benefits Contact Center
2931 Elm Hill Pike
Nashville, TN 37214
Phone: (877) 377-4357
For a Copy of In-Network Providers
Phone: (866) 251-1779
Website: www.anthem.com 
Getting Precertification for Non-Emergency Services
Phone: (866) 251-1779
Website: www.anthem.com
For Sending a Completed Medical Claim
Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield processes claims at service centers in the state 
where medical service is rendered. Please contact Anthem Blue Cross Blue 
Shield at (866) 251-1779 for the address of the service center in your state.
For Sending Completed Breast Pump Claims
Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield
Attn: Vision Claims Forms
220 Virginia Ave
Mailpoint IN0203-C478
Indianapolis, IN 46204
(866) 251-1779
For Sending Completed Vision Claims 
Blue View Vision
Attn: OON Claims
P.O. Box 8504 
Mason, OH 45040
(866) 293-7373
For Appealing a Medical Claim
Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield Appeals
P.O. Box 105568
Atlanta, GA 30348-5568
*All appeals must be in writing
Prescription Drug Network Provider
Direct Claims Mailing Address
Express Scripts Health Solutions, Inc.
P.O. Box 14711
Cummins Inc. U.S. Group Medical HSA 3000 Plan
Non Bargained, NAD, DRC-IAM, DWU BB & CMEP, OCU CMEP, OCU LDD, and OCU BB
- 102 -
Lexington, KY 40512
Phone: (866) 544-6968 
Website: www.express-scripts.com 
Mail-order program
Express Scripts
P.O. Box 747000
Cincinnati, OH 45274-7000
Phone: (866) 544-6968
Website: www.express-scripts.com
Specialty Pharmacy Program
Express Scripts
P.O. Box 747000
Cincinnati, OH 45274-7000
Phone: 1-800-501-7210 (8am-8pm EST Mon-Fri)
Website: www.express-scripts.com